Benten’s Curse (Air)
One of the more popular tales of the rakugoka, the
professional storytellers of Rokugan, is that of the Artless
Artist. A comedic tale, it is the story of a court artist who
was utterly lacking in any genuine talent and had such
an unpleasant demeanor that nobody would ever love
him. The telling of the tale varies from performance to
performance, with the rakugoka spinning unique and
outrageous recountings of the artist’s misadventures
tailored to the tastes of their particular audience.
Types: Interpersonal, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Benten’s Curse adversity:
$ Your romantic efforts are always stymied
by circumstances, and your gestures to
get the romantic attention of others are
usually misinterpreted.
$ When you make a check to express your admi-
ration to someone (such as an Aesthetics [Air]
check to find the right poem to read to express
your feelings or a Courtesy [Air] check to tell
someone your feelings without exceeding pro-
priety), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Bishamon’s Curse (Water)
“A straightforward samurai is a well-honed blade,
valued for its purity of purpose and dependability
when called upon. A blunt samurai, however, is like a
blunt blade: valued by none, and never called upon;
left as only a reminder of its former utility.”
–Akodo’s Leadership
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Bishamon’s Curse adversity:
$ You find it very difficult to lift heavy objects,
and it takes you twice as long as others to
regain your stamina after hard labor.
$ When you make a check that relies on recov-
ering quickly (such as a Fitness [Water] check
to recover from exhaustion or the Gravely
Wounded condition or a Martial Arts [Unarmed]
[Water] check to train for an extended period
of time), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Bitter Betrothal (Water)
“My husband returns home tonight,” she said in a low
whisper, passing the bag of coins beneath the table
to the men seated across from her. Nobody in this inn
knew her face, yet she still felt the need for caution.
“He will be traveling via the eastern road.”
“It shall be done,” said the leader. Without further
word, he and his companions rose from the table
and left the inn. The room seemed somehow lighter
without them in it.
Soon, she would be rid of him.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the Bit-
ter Betrothal adversity:
$ Something significantly complicates your
relationship with your betrothed or spouse.
As a result, they often undermine your efforts,
whether out of malice, negligence, or an
incompatible set of goals.
$ When you make a check that requires the col-
laboration of your betrothed or spouse (such
as a Courtesy [Water] check to make a polite
request to their family for political backing or
a Culture [Water] check to know the proper
thing to do at a social function involving their
relatives), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Blackmailed by [Character’s Name] (Air)
“I know of your misdeeds,” the letter simply said.
Otomo Kotsuyone laughed, knowing the would-be
blackmailer was surely listening. “My memory dims
somewhat, the older I get. Would you care to remind
me which ones?”
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Blackmailed by [Character’s Name] adversity:
$ Someone has incriminating information on you,
which they use to try and force you to help
them even when doing so may damage your
reputation. You must share with them what
knowledge you have about a given person,
item, location, or situation, whether through a
face-to-face meeting or through written corre-
spondence. You must also arrange for introduc-
tions on their behalf with exclusive members of
society or places of business.
$ When performing a check to evade complying
with the character who is blackmailing you
(such as a Courtesy [Air] check to nominally tell
them what they want without giving away key
pieces of information or a Performance [Air]
check to pretend as though you will go through
with something they have demanded of you),
you must choose and reroll two dice containing
 or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
Blindness (Water)
Though Muika could not see the faces of the Shosuro’s
guests, she could tell by their voices whether or
not they had been truly invited. It was a perfect
arrangement for the spymaster.
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Blindness adversity:
$ You are unable to see out of either eye. Your
lack of sight does not mean you cannot per-
ceive your surroundings (using your other sens-
es), but you cannot observe things that can be
perceived only by sight.
$ When you make a check for which sight is an
asset that cannot easily be replaced by other
senses (such as a Sentiment [Water] check to
identify someone’s hostile intentions from across
a noisy room or a Martial Arts [Ranged] [Water]
check to hit a moving target with an arrow), you
must choose and reroll two dice containing  or
. After resolving the check, if you failed, you
gain 1 Void point.
Bluntness (Air)
“You look terrible, my lord.”
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Bluntness adversity:
$ You have difficulty expressing things indirectly,
and you overlook insinuations and implications
in the statements of others unless they are
pointed out to you directly.
$ When you make a check to create or interpret
subtext (such as a Design [Air] check to select
a wardrobe that conveys the proper subtle
message to your intended recipient or a Sen-
timent [Air] check to read someone’s unstated
feelings), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Clumsiness (Fire)
“Oh my. I am terribly sorry, sir.”
Kitsune Sōren tried in vain to help brush piles of
shrimp and noodles in chili oil from the kimono of the
disturbingly large Crab Clan samurai while desperately
trying to recall the man’s name.
“I didn’t see the server there, you see, and I’m
afraid that I rose at the wrong moment, and…”
The Crab samurai stood, towering over the Fox
Clan samurai. Noodles hung from his hair.
“Oh, my.”
Types: Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Clumsiness adversity:
$ You are physically imprecise when dealing with
tasks that require notable dexterity (or any
physical task, really). At the GM’s discretion, you
periodically drop items, make a mess of precise
crafting efforts, or slip and fall onto people.
$ When you make a check that requires precise
motor skills (such as a Fitness [Fire] check to
vault over an obstacle or a Design [Fire] check
to create an intricate piece of jewelry), you
must choose and reroll two dice containing 
or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
Cognitive Lapses (Void)
There are cases of samurai who have suffered a killing
blow to the head, yet recovered, who are changed by the
experience. Some display all manner of odd behaviors,
such as forgetting old skills or acquaintances, or dramatic
shifts in taste and perception. Others lose themselves,
suffering gaps in their memory where the part of
themselves they’ve lost takes control of their bodies.
In very few of these instances is the culprit an evil
spirit who has slipped in through a wound or because
of the Shadowlands Taint. Still, one must be vigilant.
– Medicine by Agasha Shio
Types: Mental, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Cognitive Lapses adversity:
$ At the GM’s discretion, you sometimes lose your
ability to focus or think consciously. Your body
continues to act during these times according to
your general instincts, and it does not undertake
actions you would not consciously perform, but
you do not form coherent memories of these
times. After you suffer such a lapse that lasts
for more than a few brief moments at the GM’s
choice, you gain 1 Void point.
$ When you make a check for which you must
recall anything that happened during a period
of cognitive lapse (such as a Meditation [Void]
check to understand your past decisions or a
Sentiment [Void] check to guess what you might
have said to someone based on their reaction to
you), you must choose and reroll two dice con-
taining  or . After resolving the check, if you
failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Daikoku’s Curse (Water)
Daidoji Shingen let Hiramichi Anjiro lean a bit
heavier upon him as they worked their way through
the narrow streets back to the docks where their ship
was berthed. The first mate was drunk, and although
the captain would normally have let him sleep it
off, Shingen felt that perhaps it was better to begin
their departure. No one in the gambling den could
have possibly thought that they had any money left
between them, but it never hurt to be careful.
“I still can’t believe it, Anjiro-kun. I have never seen
anybody lose like that before. Do you realize the odds on
that last roll? You literally only had one way to lose, and
yet you found it. You are a veritable Oracle of Misfortune.”
Anjiro only sighed.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Daikoku’s Curse adversity:
$ When you gamble or speculate on the value
of goods, even if you receive short-term gains,
events conspire such that you always end up as
poor (if not poorer) as when you started.
$ When you make a check to gain or preserve
wealth (such as a Commerce [Water] check to
haggle for a good price on an item or a Skul-
duggery [Water] check to find a fence for stolen
items), you must choose and reroll two dice con-
taining  or . After resolving the check, if you
failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Damaged Heart or Organ (Earth)
“My lord, your heart!”
Akodo Yasuteru shook the servant’s hand from his
shoulder. He could cut the man down for daring to
touch him. A younger Yasuteru might have done so.
But he was so tired. He sat.
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Damaged Heart or Organ adversity:
$ Your heart or another vital organ is weak due
to physical trauma or illness, and you can only
engage in strenuous activity for half as long as
other characters before needing to rest.
$ When you make a check to undertake strenu-
ous activity over a long period of time (such as
a Fitness [Earth] check to march for a long time
or a Smithing [Earth] check to hammer plates
back onto a damaged piece of armor), you
must choose and reroll two dice containing 
or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
Deafness (Air)
A tap on her shoulder drew Masa around to watch her
commander’s lips. “Masa,” Hida Tomonatsu said. “I
need to get a message to the scouts on the ground,
but there is no way they will hear me through all this
noise. Tell them to retreat.”
Masa nodded, stepped to the edge, and waved her
hand until Hiruma Takakage waved in response, down
below. Then, her hands flew in a flurry of Hiruma Hand
Talk. “Hida-sama says ‘retreat.’ Is it very noisy right now?”
“Very,” Takakage signed back.
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Deafness adversity:
$ You are unable to hear, although you can per-
ceive your surroundings through other senses.
$ When you make a check for which auditory
cues are very useful (such as a Sentiment [Air]
check to discern if someone is being sincere
or a Courtesy [Air] check to pick up rumors via
eavesdropping on someone’s faraway conver-
sation), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check,
you gain 1 Void point.
Discomfiting Countenance (Air)
The rōnin strode forward, and my hand tightened upon
the hilt of my katana. If he wanted a duel, he would have
it. No masterless wretch could ever stand against me.
He stopped a few yards away and reached up with
long-fingered hands to unfasten the mempō from his
helmet. As the facial armor was removed, I saw his pale
skin, marked by a wide, deep-red birthmark that ran
from just above his right eye down to his jawline—and
in that instance, I knew that he was Muramatsu Kibe—
the Cinnabar Swordsman.
A duel would not be so easy a matter, after all.
Types: Interpersonal, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Discomfiting Countenance adversity:
$ Characters of lower status must generally
be respectful of you to your face, but char-
acters of higher status might try to use your
looks as a way of attacking your character.
Additionally, you are extremely memorable,
and you find it difficult to act subtly without
being remembered.
$ When you make a check to get someone to
trust your word (such as a Courtesy [Air] check
to make someone believe a lie or a Performance
[Air] check to present a story as genuine) you
must choose and reroll two dice containing  or
. After resolving the check, if you failed, you
gain 1 Void point.
Disdain for a Bushidō
Tenet (Various)
“We Brothers of the Boar are very loyal samurai, indeed!
Loyal to money, loyal to our bellies, loyal to ourselves,
and what higher virtue could there be, brothers, eh?”
- The Rōnin Kujira
Types: Flaw, Mental
Choose One: Compassion (Water), Courage (Fire),
Courtesy (Air), Duty and Loyalty (Earth), Honor (Void),
Righteousness (Void), Sincerity (Void). A character
may have multiple instances of this disadvantage for
different tenets.
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Disdain for a Bushidō Tenet adversity:
$ You no longer believe in the chosen tenet
of Bushidō, though you still lose honor for
disobeying it. When you act in accordance with
this tenet of Bushidō, others can sometimes
sense your insincerity.
$ When you make a check to pay lip service to this
tenet of Bushidō or to uphold it (such as a Cour-
tesy check to express its importance or a Medi-
tation check to use a belief in this tenet to your
advantage), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Ebisu’s Curse (Earth)
“And the harvest?” Doji Kiseki concealed her worry
behind a fan.
The farmer, already prostrate before his lord,
pressed his forehead to the floor. “Most of the rice
was ruined before the harvest, my lord. And we’ve
discovered that the bushels already removed to storage
have also succumbed to some kind of rotting blight.”
“Is nothing salvageable?” Kiseki’s voice was barely
a whisper.
“We’re trying, my lord.”
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Ebisu’s Curse adversity:
$ Characters of lower status automatically distrust
you, viewing you as a distant overlord who can-
not possibly be competent at practical labor or
understand their daily struggles (whether or not
either of these is a fair assessment).
$ When you make a check to interact with labor-
ers or partake in their work (such as a Com-
merce [Earth] check to mass produce items or
a Labor [Earth] check to dig a ditch), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or .
After resolving the check, if you failed, you gain
1 Void point.
Fractured Spine (Earth)
Moto stories tell of the famous Khan Who Rode a
Cart, Yesegei Khan. Although he could not sit a horse
without excruciating pain due to an injury from a fall
as a boy, Moto Yesegai was brilliant and well-loved by
his people. His cart, drawn by a white camel, was a
welcome sight anywhere across the Moto steppe, and
people would flock to his yurt wherever it roamed to
partake of his wisdom.
Types: Physical, Scar
Effect: The following apply to a character with the
Fractured Spine adversity:
$ You have suffered major trauma to the spine,
and harsh impacts cause you to be shot
through with agonizing pain. You can lift and
carry only half the weight that someone of your
strength normally could.
$ When you make a check to resist harm or
exhaustion (such as a Fitness [Earth] check to
shrug off further injury or a Labor [Earth] check
to carry heavy objects as part of building a
structure), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Fukurokujin’s Curse (Fire)
“Study is like sailing against a current; a boat must
forge ahead, lest it be swept downstream. But those
without a boat must go where the current takes them;
not all people are made to be sailors.”
– Analects of Nabeshima
Types: Mental, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Fukurokujin’s Curse adversity:
$ It takes you twice as long to gain a grasp
of an academic field of study as it does
another character.
$ When you make a check to extrapolate how
to do something in a field of study (such as a
Medicine [Fire] check to guess how to treat
an unfamiliar aliment based on its symptoms
or a Survival [Fire] check to guess an unknown
creature’s qualities based on its physiology),
you must choose and reroll two dice containing
 or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
Gaijin Name, Culture, or Appearance (Fire)
The Crane courtier bowed deeply, a thin, insincere smile
upon his face. “I bring a thousand wishes for a glorious
future from the Crane to the great Shinjo Aru…Arutan…”
“Altansarnai,” the Unicorn Champion corrected him.
The courtier bowed further. “I apologize, Shinjo-
sama. A…lovely name, but one that falls oddly upon
my tongue.”
“It is from the Ujik tongue. It means ‘golden rose.’”
Altansarnai gestured for the courtier to join her where
she was seated. We are still foreign to them, she
thought, and they will never let us forget it.
Types: Interpersonal (Name), Mental and Interpersonal
(Culture), or Physical (Appearance)
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Gaijin Name, Culture, or Appearance adversity:
$ People of higher and equal status tend to
assume that you are uneducated at best and a
barbarian at worst, while people of lower status
respond to you with fear.
$ When you make a check to inspire others who do
not share your culture or background (such as a
Command [Fire] check to rally troops or a Com-
merce [Fire] check to create a product that peo-
ple desire), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Haunting (Void)
The tale is told of Toritaka
Kanoshi, a young samurai of the
Falcon Clan, whose father was betrayed and
murdered by a family friend. The ghost of the father
appeared to the young man and bade him to avenge
his murder, but Kanoshi refused to believe that the
spirit was truly that of the elder Toritaka.
The father’s ghost followed Kanoshi around for
years, creating a great commotion that only his son
could hear. In the end, nearly driven mad by the
torment, Kanoshi finally obeyed the ghost’s wishes
and brought the murderer to justice. Satisfied, his
father was finally at rest, and he haunted Kanoshi
no more.
Types: Interpersonal, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Haunted adversity:
$ The spirit has their own agenda (determined
by the GM), which interferes with yours at
inopportune times.
$ When you make a check to defy the will of the
spirit haunting you (such as a Meditation [Void]
check to find solace in meditation or a Skuldug-
gery [Void] check to perform disreputable acts
to survive), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Incurable Illness (Earth)
The next morning, as we prepared our horses for the
long ride ahead, Moto Ryoichi was wracked by one of
his coughing fits. As was his preference, I deliberately
paid no attention, turning my gaze to the proper fitting
of my mount’s reins. Out of the corner of my eye,
however, I saw Ryoichi pull a white silk kerchief away
from his mouth, spotted red with blood. My concern
overcame our long-standing agreement. “Ryoichi-san.”
He waved away any further inquiry. “I’m fine,” he
croaked, his throat raw from coughing. “We have a
long day ahead. We should get on with it.”
Types: Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Incurable Illness adversity:
$ Periodically, if you push yourself too hard, you are
afflicted by especially violent fits that significantly
restrict your activity for a brief period of time.
$ When you make a check to remain active for long
periods of time (such as a Labor [Earth] check to
plow a field or a Survival [Earth] check to build a
shelter), you must choose and reroll two dice con-
taining  or . After resolving the check, if you
failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Jurōjin’s Curse (Void)
The battle was won; the castle had been taken. I found
Kitsu Tsuyoshi seated on a tree stump in the courtyard.
Fires burned here and there, and the bodies of the
bandits who had occupied the castle lay broken and
bloody all around us, along with more than a few of
our own bushi.
“You charged the gate alone,” I said. “You fought
your way in and opened the way for the rest of us. It was
the bravest thing I have ever witnessed, Tsuyoshi-san.”
The samurai raised his head to regard me wearily.
“It’s not bravery, Kodaga-san,” he said with a slight
shrug. “I have always known that I will die young. So
why struggle against it?”
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Jurojin’s Curse adversity:
$ Poison and disease seem to strike you more
easily, and it takes you twice as long as normal
to recover from disease and injury.
$ When you make a check to sustain yourself
(such as a Fitness [Void] check to resist a crit-
ical injury or a Survival [Void] check to live in
harmony with a natural environment), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or .
After resolving the check, if you failed, you gain
1 Void point.
Kisshōten’s Curse (Water)
“Children are but a reflection of their parents.”
– Tao of Shinsei
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the Kis-
shōten’s Curse adversity:
$ Children instinctively dislike you and are obsti-
nate in the face of your demands. Your own
children (if you have any) are unlucky in matters
of health, beauty, and happiness.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to communicate with children (such as a Com-
mand [Water] check to order them around or a
Performance [Water] check to entertain them),
you must choose and reroll two dice containing
 or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
Lost Arm or Lost Hand (Fire)
“Turn and face me, dog!” Takeda stiffened and turned.
Akodo Shinpei stalked through the fire toward him.
“Back again, little Lion?” sneered the rōnin. “I took
your arm when we last crossed swords. Are you so
eager to lose the other?”
“I lost an arm, but at least I still have my honor,”
Shinpei growled. He drew his sword. It shone in the
firelight. “Die on my blade, cur, and if you do it with
courage, perhaps you can regain some of yours.”
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Lost Arm or Lost Hand adversity:
$ You have only one usable hand or arm. You
cannot wield weapons in a two-handed grip or
hold anything in your missing hand. If you are
missing only the hand, you can strap items to
the arm for use.
$ When you make a check for which having
two hands is very valuable (such as a Martial
Arts [Unarmed] [Fire] check to grapple a foe
into submission or a Survival [Fire] check to
leap onto a galloping horse’s back), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or .
After resolving the check, if you failed, you gain
1 Void point.
Lost Eye (Water)
Johei poured the water from the kettle and it missed
the cup, splashing onto the table. Ayame looked
over the table at him, her gaze flicking briefly to his
bandaged eye socket before snapping away.
“It’s no trouble for me to pour it,” Ayame offered.
“My thanks. But adaptation is natural for humans.
I learned to be a Crane when I joined your family,
and I’ll learn this, too.” Johei raised the kettle again
and moved it until it clicked audibly against the cup.
Then he poured. “I don’t relish the idea of doing it
again, but losing my eye was a small price to secure
our future.”
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Lost Eye adversity:
$ You have only one eye. Your field of vision
is narrower, and your depth perception is
somewhat diminished.
$ When you make a check for which your reduced
ability to observe a wide field or discern the
exact distance to faraway objects would cause
difficulties (such as a Tactics [Water] check to
spot incoming threats or a Martial Arts [Ranged]
[Water] check to hit targets while moving), you
must choose and reroll two dice containing  or
. After resolving the check, if you failed, you
gain 1 Void point.
Lost Fingers (Fire)
The weathered old Crab held up his hands, and the
children gasped. “Can’t count to ten without taking
off my shoes, but at least I still have more fingers than
teeth,” he chuckled. “Each of my fingers told a story
as it left me. This one? A goblin’s teeth, as I pried it off
my lord’s leg. This one? One of the great war machines
on the Wall misfired…” The children stared, every eye
wide, as the old Crab wove his stories of glory and
hardship in their never-ending war.
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Lost Fingers adversity:
$ You have fewer functional digits on one of your
hands than most people. Checks to craft new
items take you twice as long as they would
take a character with their full complement
of fingers.
$ When you make a check for which you must
maintain a precise grip with both hands at once
(such as a Design [Fire] check to weave cloth or
a Martial Arts [Fire] check to draw your blade
quickly), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Lost Leg (Water)
After Hiruma Noriko lost her leg while rescuing Asahina
Setsuna from a tragic venture into the Shadowlands,
the grateful artificer sought to repay the hero. The
two collaborated on countless designs to help the
warrior return to the field, Setsuna’s mystical skill
guided by Noriko’s practical knowledge. The resulting
prosthetic, beautifully lacquered and inscribed with
countless protective charms, still remains in the armory
of Carpenter Castle, and has inspired many similar
devices over the centuries.
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Lost Leg adversity:
$ You have one fewer leg than most people.
You use a crutch, cane, or other support
to walk, and standing takes more effort
than it does for people with two legs. Trav-
eling by walking takes you twice as long
as it does others without some form of
compensatory tool.
$ When you make a check for which you must
reposition yourself quickly or maintain your
balance (such as a Fitness [Water] check to
move across difficult ground quickly or a
Seafaring [Water] check to operate a boat in
difficult conditions such as a storm), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or
. After resolving the check, if you failed, you
gain 1 Void point.
Lost Memories (Void)
Utsuro bowed as he accepted the bowl, then sat back
and ate with gusto. The simple food she brought him
seemed to make him so happy. “You eat like you’ve
never had rice balls before,” she laughed.
“I don’t remember,” Utsuro reminded her. “Perhaps
I haven’t!”
“I’ll bring you something else tomorrow,” she said,
standing to go.
“Yue,” said Utsuro. “My memories will come back
some day.”
“I’m sure they will,” she said. Utsuro bowed again,
and she went back to her home, climbed upon her
table and lifted down the basket from the beams of
her roof. She stared down at the robe Utsuro had been
wearing when she found him, with its chrysanthemum
crest. “But not too soon, I hope.”
Types: Mental, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Lost Memories adversity:
$ There is a period of your life that you cannot
remember at all. The less important this period
is to your identity, the longer it should be (for
example, a single day lost might be sufficient
if the character committed a terrible act during
that time and struggles to understand how or
why, whereas a full decade of lost memories
might be insufficient if they are not especially
foundational to who the character is). The play-
er and GM should work together to determine
the amount and importance of memories lost.
Skills and abilities acquired during the lost time
are largely retained, even if the character does
not remember the act of developing them.
$ When you make a check for which you must recall
information you learned during the period of lost
memories (such as a Culture [Void] check to intuit
how to behave in a particular situation similar
or related to one you encountered during that
time or a Meditation [Void] check to understand
your past decisions), you must choose and reroll
two dice containing  or . After resolving the
check, if you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Maimed Arm (Fire)
The samurai kept her arm tucked in her kimono. Her
left sleeve flapped empty in the breeze, a testament
to her folly—and resilience.
Types: Physical, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Maimed Arm adversity:
$ Your right or left arm is injured (your choice at
the time the disadvantage is assigned), making it
much harder to perform activities that involve use
of that arm. You can use the arm, but gripping
anything tightly causes you pain, and you might
need a sling to help the arm heal properly.
$ When you make a check for which you need to
use two hands at once (such as a Design [Fire]
check to sew a new kimono or a Martial Arts
[Melee] [Fire] check to overwhelm a foe with
a powerful overhead slice), you must choose
and reroll two dice containing  or . After
resolving the check, if you failed, you gain 1
Void point.
Maimed Visage (Air)
“You have a villain’s look about you. Why should we
believe you’re a magistrate of the Emperor’s justice?”
The magistrate sighed. “You’re right. These scars
do tell a story about me, and one you should heed. But
you haven’t asked what the story is, have you?
“When I was young, I served my lord as a yōjimbō.
In my first battle, I took a slash meant for his throat.
You can read the degree of my loyalty in these scars.
Now, if I would suffer such a wound without complaint,
do you really think I’d allow your foolishness to stand
in the way of justice?”
Types: Physical, Interpersonal, Scar
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Maimed Visage adversity:
$ You have been struck in the face, causing a very
noticeable and difficult-to-disguise sign of your
altercation. Your injury is disquieting to many,
and speaking causes you some pain, hamper-
ing your social endeavors that hinge on subtle
implication and manipulation.
$ When you make a check to subtly convince
others of something or speak an implication
(such as a Commerce [Air] check to sell an item
at a higher price than usual or a Courtesy [Air]
check to insult someone by implication), you
must choose and reroll two dice containing 
or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
Momoku (Void)
A favorite shadow-puppet play often performed
during the fall harvest season, The Hungry Ghosts
features an old man who lives in a haunted house, yet
cannot see the ghosts that surround him. The ghosts
continually eat his food and frighten his guests, but the
old man remains oblivious.
Some puppeteers have run afoul of the law while
performing this play, making the old man appear a bit
too much like the local lord, and the ghosts resemble
problems plaguing the local region—problems that
the lord seems incapable of seeing.
Types: Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Momoku adversity:
$ You do not detect supernatural presences even
when they make themselves evident to every-
one else, and you are blissfully unaware of the
ripples in reality such entities and phenomena
create. You can still discern effects they have on
the physical world, but only when they become
quite obvious.
$ When you make a check to understand or
appeal to otherworldly powers (such as a
Games [Void] check to put your faith in the
power of the universe or a Theology [Void]
check to call upon the cosmic energy around
you), you must choose and reroll two dice con-
taining  or . After resolving the check, if you
failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Muteness (Air)
The Quiet Monks of Kaitō Province take vows of silence
upon entering the monastery. They devote themselves
to silent contemplation of the Tao and the mysteries
of the elements.
Types: Interpersonal, Physical or Mental, Scar
Effect: The following apply to a character with the
Muteness adversity:
$ You are physically or psychologically unable
to produce intelligible spoken words. You can
still make yourself understood through signing,
gestures, and meaningful looks.
$ When you make a check for which you must
make your tone of voice understood by others
(such as a Command [Air] check to convey
nuanced information to others or a Performance
[Air] check to impersonate someone convinc-
ingly), you must choose and reroll two dice con-
taining  or . After resolving the check, if you
failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Nerve Damage (Air)
Matsu Makoto sat with a perfect stillness of impatience.
“How long until I can fight again?”
Kitsu Hanae looked over the wound on her arm.
“It’s healing well externally. No infection. But inside,
it’s hard to tell. You might never regain full sensitivity,
or it might slowly return over months or years. Patience
is the only remedy now.”
Makoto grumbled at the same non-answer Hanae
had given yesterday. “How long until I can start training
with my left hand, then?”
Types: Physical, Scar
Effect: The following apply to a character with the
Nerve Damage adversity:
$ You have no feeling in certain parts of your body.
$ When you make a check for which physical
sensitivity is helpful (such as an Aesthetics [Air]
check to delicately paint glaze onto a ceram-
ic piece or a Fitness [Air] check to maintain
your posture exactly while moving), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or .
After resolving the check, if you failed, you gain
1 Void point.
Scorn of [One Group] (Water)
“Hatsumon cannot assume the command,” Utaku
Kamoko growled. No “-sama,” not even a “-san,” and
certainly not “Utaku Hatsumon,” not after his crime of
riding one of the sacred Utaku steeds.
“With Shinjo Reki’s death, Hatsumon Noyan is the
highest ranked officer present,” soothed Ide Ujiyasu.
“The command is his.”
“So be it,” Kamoko snarled, and stalked from
the tent. The entire Shiotome contingent left the
encampment the next day.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Scorn of [One Group] adversity:
$ You have earned the ire of a particular group,
which has seriously damaged your ability to
work with its members or enlist their help. You
have been barred from entering their facilities,
and they refuse to meet or communicate with
you directly. Confer with the GM to select a
campaign-appropriate group when choosing
this disadvantage.
$ When performing a check to interact with the
chosen group that relies on your rapport with
its members (such as a Courtesy [Water] check
to persuade them to do something or a Per-
formance [Water] check to impress a group of
them), you must choose and reroll two dice con-
taining  or . After resolving the check, if you
failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Shadowlands Taint (Air)
The Obsidian Journal is a secret text, written hundreds
of years ago by Kuni Shunsuke, a Crab Clan samurai
who made forbidden journeys into the Shadowlands
and wrote of what he saw there.
By the end of his journal, he wrote: “Even now,
I know that the fingers of shadow have reached too
deeply within me, for although I am surrounded by
family and clan, I feel no kinship. They seem distant to
me, as if viewed through a glass. I wonder how much
of myself is truly left.”
That was the final entry of the Obsidian Journal.
Kuni Shunsuke committed seppuku to silence the call
of the Shadowlands.
Types: Curse, Interpersonal, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Shadowlands Taint (Air) adversity:
$ You are a Tainted being. You have trouble
sympathizing with other humans, but you
can understand the emotions of corrupted
beings easily.
$ When you make a check to show compassion
for other human beings (such as a Compo-
sition [Air] check to edit a work for emo-
tional refinement or a Courtesy [Air] check
to say something difficult without harming
the recipient’s feelings), you must choose
and reroll two dice containing  or . After
resolving the check, if you failed, you gain 1
Void point.
Shadowlands Taint (Earth)
“The swordsman bled from two dozen cuts, each of
which would have brought down any samurai. Finally,
one last spear from our bushi found his chest, and
he died.
“I swear to you, he did die. I am sure of that. Yet I
can scarcely bring myself to write what we witnessed
next, as his corpse dragged itself up to stand and face
us again. It was only through use of a torch that we
were finally able to put an end to him.”
– The Obsidian Journal
Types: Curse, Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Shadowlands Taint (Earth)adversity:
$ You are a Tainted being. Your ability to feel
physical sensations is significantly diminished,
and when you perish, your body rises as a
Zombie Peasant (see page 321), which pur-
sues your last goal with bestial purpose before
turning on anyone else nearby.
$ When you make a check that relies upon phys-
ical sensitivity (such as a Design [Earth] check
to repair a damaged item or a Martial Arts
[Unarmed] [Earth] check to grapple with a foe),
you must choose and reroll two dice containing
 or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
LOSING YOUR
HUMANITY
A character with one or
more instances of the
Shadowlands Taint dis-
advantage is a Tainted
being, and is affected
by any effect that speci-
fies Tainted beings.
A character with three
or more instances
of the Shadowlands
Taint disadvantage has
slipped even further
from their humani-
ty. They are also an
Otherworldly being,
and are affected by any
effect that specifies
Otherworldly beings.
A character with
five instances of the
Shadowlands Taint
disadvantage has been
lost completely to the
grip of Fu Leng. In most
games, this means that
they are no longer an
appropriate player
character—though of
course, the GM is the
final arbiter over wheth-
er such a character is
suitable for their story!
Shadowlands Taint (Fire)
“Sakori is lost to us. During
our recent excursions, she
gradually grew more and
more obsessed with the
thought of using the enemy’s
own power against him. She
pored over every scrap of
knowledge we acquired, following it
down ever-darker paths.
“I was brought news this morning
that she was gone. She has been found
nowhere within the castle, and none along
the Wall have reported seeing her. Her bed
was not slept in. I can only assume that she’s
out there somewhere, in the Shadowlands,
drawn further away from who she once was with
every step.”
– The Obsidian Journal
Types: Curse, Mental, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Shadowlands Taint (Fire) adversity:
$ You are a Tainted being. You can identify Shad-
owlands creatures and forces, you know how
to turn them to destructive ends, and you are
drawn inexorably to such forbidden powers.
$ When you make a check to foresee possible
negative outcomes of your actions (such as a
Government [Fire] check to extrapolate wheth-
er your actions could lead to great destruction
or a Theology [Fire] check to know whether
the powers you are dealing with are likely
to destroy you in the end), you must choose
and reroll two dice containing  or . After
resolving the check, if you failed, you gain 1
Void point.
Shadowlands Taint (Void)
“We sent a patrol out yesterday. Only Akihiro returned.
He says that one by one, his comrades fell to a series
of mishaps. Ome was bitten by a snake. Yayoi fell from
a precipice. Kanbei drowned in quicksand. It was as if
fate had abandoned each of them, save Akihiro.
“He will bear closer watching.”
– The Obsidian Journal
Types: Curse, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Shadowlands Taint (Void) adversity:
$ You are a Tainted being. Each time you spend
your last Void point, someone near you suffers
a misfortune as the woven cord of fate frays.
$ When you make a check to discern your future
(such as a Government [Void] check to know
whether a course of action is likely to end in
tragedy or a Seafaring [Void] check to detect
the arrival of a storm before it hits), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or .
After resolving the check, if you failed, you gain
1 Void point.
Shadowlands Taint (Water)
“A man was killed trying to get over the Wall today. At
least, it appeared to be a man. When our soldiers cut
him down, his blood was putrescence itself, flowing like
poison from his body, and those whom it touched fell ill.
“Five guards are now struck by this grave sickness,
and our monks tend to them as best they can.”
– The Obsidian Journal
Types: Curse, Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Shadowlands Taint (Water) adversity:
TAINTED CHARACTERS
IN ROKUGAN
The corrupting influence
of Fu Leng is ill-under-
stood in Rokugan. Some
believe it to stem from
insufficient faith, while
others treat it more like a
disease of the body.
Far from the Kaiu Wall,
many believe it to be the
end of a samurai’s ability
to serve. In Crane lands,
widespread knowledge
that a character has
contracted it can be disas-
trous to their social and
political aspirations.
In Crab lands, it is simply
a fact of life for many
warriors who face the
monsters beyond the wall.
The Kuni family brews
and distributes jade petal
tea for the afflicted, a spe-
cial remedy that can slow
the corruption’s effects.
Some among the Unicorn,
having seen strange
maladies in the wider
world, have even studied
it like a disease, that they
might one day conquer
it—though these scholars
have yet to show progress
LIVING WITH THE
TAINT
Within Crab lands,
the Taint is tragically
common. The Kuni
maintain a great ledger
with all of the names of
the Tainted. A character
who approaches the
Kuni to report themself
must forfeit status until
their status is 20, but
they can continue to
serve the Crab.
Outside of Crab lands,
it is very rare to
contract the Taint, and
there are no standards
on how it is handled.
Some lords might send
a Tainted retainer to
the Kuni, while others
might dispose of the re-
tainer or quietly cover
up the whole matter.
$ You are a Tainted being. When your blood is
spilled (such as after you suffer the Bleeding
condition), foulness spills forth. Anyone who
touches it suffers the Afflicted condition.
$ When you make a check to heal others or deal
with food (such as a Medicine [Water] check to
prepare treatments for a disease or a Survival
[Water] check to forage for food), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or .
After resolving the check, if you failed, you gain
1 Void point.
Sworn Enemy (Earth)
“As soon as a person leaves their house, they have
seven enemies.”
– Tao of Shinsei
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Sworn Enemy adversity:
$ You and the GM should select or create a
character to be your sworn enemy. Your sworn
enemy exists within the world and periodically
meddles in your affairs, directly or indirectly,
at the GM’s discretion. If your sworn enemy
perishes, you must either remove this disad-
vantage, acquire a new sworn enemy (perhaps
someone who hates you because of your role
in the demise of the previous one), or find a
way for your deceased foe to continue playing
a role in your life.
$ When you make a check to remain rational in
the presence of this person you hate (such as a
Courtesy [Earth] check to interact with this per-
son without being provocative or a Meditation
[Earth] check to stay stoic in the face of their
insults), you must choose and reroll two dice
containing  or . After resolving the check, if
you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Whispers of Cruelty (Earth)
“The Peace of the Unicorn is restored to these lands!”
The commander’s voice boomed from within his
golden mask. Standing on his stirrups, he was as tall as
the thatch-roofed houses around him. The peasants of
the village fell to their knees.
“Please,Moto-sama!”beggedthevillagehead.“Spare
us your terrible wrath! We are but heimin; we did not mean
to offer succor to the Lion, but we had no choice.”
Juro sat in his saddle once more, his jaw clenching
beneath his mask. No matter how often I try, he
thought, they still only see the terrible warlord.
Types: Interpersonal, Infamy
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Whispers of Cruelty adversity:
$ You are well-known, but not for the right
reasons. Characters who do not know you
personally always assume that you will act in
a ruthless and destructive manner, and they
act accordingly.
$ When you make a check to attempt to calm
others (such as a Courtesy [Earth] check to
convince someone to cooperate with you or
a Command [Earth] check to get someone to
accept your authority calmly), you must choose
and reroll two dice containing  or . After
resolving the check, if you failed, you gain 1
Void point.
Whispers of Doom (Void)
Orphaned by the time she was six, Doji Hatsuhina
was raised by her bachelor uncle, who also died when
the girl was twelve. Finishing her schooling at the
academies of Shizuka Toshi, Hatsuhina was betrothed
to Seppun Hakemoto, a captain in the Imperial Guard,
who died later that year. She was betrothed again,
this time to a young Bayushi son of the Scorpion
Champion, who was murdered as part of the often-
lethal politics of his clan.
She was not betrothed a third time.
Types: Interpersonal, Infamy
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Whispers of Doom adversity:
$ You are well-known, but not for the right rea-
sons. Characters who do not know you person-
ally always assume that those around you will
perish or meet bad ends, even if you survive to
spread your ill fortune further.
$ When you make a check to dispel someone’s
false preconceptions (such as a Courtesy [Void]
check to get someone to question their deci-
sion or a Command [Void] check to get some-
one to see the pointlessness of their position),
you must choose and reroll two dice containing
 or . After resolving the check, if you failed,
you gain 1 Void point.
Whispers of Failure (Fire)
“Some say failure is the true death of a samurai, but
I have lived many years, and so I do not think this is
so. Failure is a hard vine to uproot from the minds of
others once it has sprouted, true. But what is most
vital is uprooting it within your own mind. In this way,
a samurai sets aside failure, and thus conquers regret.
Only then can the seeds of success flourish.”
Types: Interpersonal, Infamy
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Whispers of Failure adversity:
$ You are well-known, but not for the right rea-
sons. Characters who do not know you person-
ally always assume that you are incompetent,
and they do not trust you with important tasks.
$ When you make a check to get others to follow
your lead (such as a Command [Fire] check to lead
a charge or a Performance [Fire] check to inspire
others), you must choose and reroll two dice con-
taining  or . After resolving the check, if you
failed, you gain 1 Void point.
Whispers of Poverty (Water)
A certain samurai of the Phoenix Clan so embarrassed
his mother that she let it be known that no longer
would she pay his gambling debts, nor support his
dissolute lifestyle in Otosan Uchi. The samurai fell on
hard times, and was forced to marry into a merchant’s
family to replenish his purse. Now flush with koku,
the samurai still found that those who saw him spoke
behind their fans, “Oh, there goes Empty-Purse-san,
the Pauper Samurai,” so for all his new wealth he still
had not regained his honor.
– “Gossip Twice-Told,” by Otomo no
Hoji (true identity unknown)
Types: Interpersonal, Infamy
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Whispers of Poverty adversity:
$ You are well-known, but not for the right
reasons. Characters who do not know you
personally always assume that you don’t have
financial solvency and won’t be able to muster
resources quickly.
$ When you make a check to acquire items
quickly or make trade deals (such as a Com-
mand [Water] check to win over troops under
your command with the promise of rewards or
a Commerce [Water] check to secure a large
supply of a commodity or service), you must
choose and reroll two dice containing  or .
After resolving the check, if you failed, you gain
1 Void point.
Whispers of Treachery (Air)
Bayushi Kyo groaned. “We’re doing this again? Now?”
Kuni Mamoru stood firm as he put the finishing
touches on the warding barrier. “You have been acting
suspiciously of late. Even more so than usual—the stories
about you don’t do justice to the depths of your deceit.”
“I don’t suppose you’d be willing to take my word
that it’s for the greater good?”
Types: Interpersonal, Infamy
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Whispers of Treachery adversity:
$ You are well-known, but not for the right
reasons. Characters who do not know you
personally always assume that you will plant
poison in their tea or a knife in their back at the
first opportunity.
$ When you make a check to get others to trust
you (such as a Courtesy [Air] check to convince
someone of your sincerity or a Skulduggery
[Air] check to steal from someone who is aware
of your presence), you must choose and reroll
two dice containing  or . After resolving the
check, if you failed, you gain 1 Void point.
