Addiction (Earth)
The smoke curled in pleasing patterns
above my head. I drew another lungful
from the pipe, feeling the acrid burn in my
throat and chest. A searing warmth made my
cheeks flush, and I exhaled.
“Chasing the Dragon,” they called it.
Funny. It doesn’t feel like I’m chasing
anything. It feels like I’m standing still, and the
universe is rushing all around me like a storm. But
afterward, the dragon always catches up to me.
Types: Mental, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Addiction anxiety:
$ Choose an addictive substance or experience;
deprivation from this substance or experience for
more than three days causes shakes, chills, dis-
traction, or even more violent physical symptoms
that become increasingly difficult to conceal.
$ After performing a check to resist the sub-
stance or experience (such as a Fitness [Earth]
check to suppress signs of your addiction
during long absences of the substance (or
experience) or a Meditation [Earth] check to
resist pursuing the experience or substance),
you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this
has occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Battle Trauma (Fire)
The thousand cuts I have borne
And the thousand I have delivered
Paint my dreams in red
Broad brushstrokes to draw pictures
I cannot put to paper.
Do my ears ring from old age
Or is that steel’s song and the warrior’s cry
Gone so long ago
But never gone?
Types: Mental, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Battle Trauma anxiety:
$ At the start of a duel, skirmish, or mass battle,
your hands shake, your body tenses up, or your
mind might even lock down. You can act normal-
ly, but your unsettled state is obvious to everyone
around you, and others may try to exploit it.
$ After performing a check related to battle (such
as a Martial Arts [Melee] [Fire] check
to strike down a foe or a Tactics [Fire]
check to generate initiative), you receive
3 strife. (Your GM can choose not to inflict
this strife after the you have taken a few
turns and thematically overcome your trau-
ma.) If this is the first time this has occurred this
scene, gain 1 Void point.
Cynicism (Fire)
“This is ridiculous,” Onishi scoffed. “Powder makes
for fine fireworks, granted. But you’re telling me that
barrels of the stuff will bring down the fortification
around that castle? Do I look like a child, ready to
believe grandfather’s stories? Please. It will never work.”
“Look, just help me get the barrels into the wagon,”
Genda replied, pushing another barrel into place.
“Fine, but I still think it’s a terrible idea, which will
do nothing but get us all killed.”
Types: Interpersonal, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Cynicism anxiety:
$ When faced with a truly novel or unconvention-
al idea, you always look for ways it can fail, and
others must persuade you that it could work
before you will try it (even if it is your idea).
$ After performing a check to think unconven-
tionally (such as a Performance [Fire] check to
improvise during a performance or a Tactics
[Fire] check to develop a new strategy on the
fly), you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time
this has occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Dark Secret (Void)
“I’m sorry that you saw that, Megumi-chan,” Kayoko
said, her voice as soft as spider’s silk, her hands stained
scarlet with blood.
A scream hung in Megumi’s throat, refusing to
emerge. She could only stare in wide-eyed horror as
Kayoko stepped closer.
“Power requires sacrifice, Megumi dear. That urchin
has given her life for a higher purpose, and I have saved
her from a lifetime of suffering. The power that I have
gained will keep us all safe.”
Megumi tried to run, but her mind seemed
disconnected from her body. Her pulse raced with the
impulse to flee, but her legs would not obey.
Kayoko glided ever closer. “I can’t have you telling
anyone, of course. I’m sure you understand…”
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Dark Secret anxiety:
$ You have a dark secret that, if exposed, could
bring ruin upon your house and disgrace your
ancestors and descendants alike. If the details
of this secret become public, your glory value
decreases dramatically, as if you had lost staked
glory (by 10 to 20). Depending on the secret,
your status value might also decrease consider-
ably (by 5 to 10), as if you had lost staked status.
$ After performing a check to assert your will over
yourself or others (such as a Command [Void]
check to order troops to fight to the bitter end
or a Meditation [Void] check to find inner peace),
you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this has
occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Delusions of Grandeur (Void)
“Do not be wary of those who take risks with titles and
lands; rather be wary of those who have nothing to lose.
And above all, be most wary of those who say they are
destined for greatness, for they will build a ladder to
Heaven on the corpses of those around them.”
– Analects of Nabeshima
Types: Mental, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Delusions of Grandeur anxiety:
$ You believe yourself destined for greatness,
and nothing will dissuade you from your fixa-
tion upon this goal. When you are presented
with a chance to advance your glory, you must
attempt to pursue it.
$ After performing a check that requires facing
your humble place in an uncaring universe
(such as a Labor [Void] check to eke out a living
in the fields or a Meditation [Void] check to
contemplate your place in the cosmos), you
receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this has
occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Fear of Death (Earth)
There are few crimes worse in the mind of the Rokugani
than cowardice, which is seen as a violation of no fewer
than three tenets of the Code of Bushidō: Yū, Meiyo,
and Chūgi. To help them teach the lessons of cowardice,
Rokugan’s storytellers have many fables at their disposal:
tales of courageous heroes brought low by cowardly
allies, histories in which the fall of an entire noble house
hinges upon a failure of courage, and more.
Types: Mental, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Fear of Death anxiety:
$ You cannot voluntarily choose to die or sacrifice
your life (including committing seppuku when
honor demands it), and if there is a chance you
could live, you must always pursue it.
$ After performing a check to risk your life or
accept your mortality (such as a Meditation
[Earth] check to find inner tranquility before
battle or a Tactics [Earth] check to hold a posi-
tion against long odds), you receive 3 strife. If
this is the first time this has occurred this scene,
gain 1 Void point.
Ferocity (Air)
With a cry like an enraged animal, Hida Amoro threw
himself into the throng of bandits. They were vicious,
yet untrained, and did not expect the attack. What
followed was a whirlwind of relentless, merciless
violence, as Amoro moved faster than many of us
could follow, utterly taking the bandits apart.We hung back and let Amoro do his work. We’d
served with him long enough to know to stay out of
the way when the red fury was upon him.
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Ferocity anxiety:
$ When you strike, you have trouble holding
back your power, and you tend to lash out
even when a subtler approach would be more
appropriate. When you defeat a minion NPC,
the minion is always killed, even if you would
prefer to incapacitate them.
$ After performing a check to intentionally hold
back or apply force subtly (such as a Games [Air]
check to manipulate your opponent or a Martial
Arts [Melee] [Air] check to strike a precise blow),
you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this has
occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Impatience (Earth)
Historians tell the story of the Battle of Thunder Plain in
1005, when the Iuchi family daimyō, in his impatience to
attack a Kaiu village of the Crab Clan, brought his cavalry
across the plain held sacred by the Order of Osano-wo.
Theorder,themostmartialorderoftheBrotherhood
of Shinsei, attacked the Unicorn cavalry with polearms.
When the Iuchi daimyō called upon the Fortunes for
defense, the kami showed their disfavor by refusing to
respond. The cavalry were soundly defeated, and they
were forced to retreat back to Unicorn lands.
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Impatience anxiety:
$ You find it difficult to repress yourself, and
when you are forced to wait, it causes you pal-
pable discomfort. If given the choice between
seizing an opportunity and waiting for a better
moment, you strive to seize the opportunity
despite risks that might be mitigated if you
act later.
$ After performing a check to strategically weigh
your options (such as a Government [Earth]
check to think of a historical anecdote related
to your situation or a Tactics [Earth] check to
identify the right moment to strike), you receive
3 strife. If this is the first time this has occurred
this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Intolerance (Water)
“Savages!” Matsu Agetoki threw his helmet across his
tent in frustration. “Our clan is expected to sully itself by
marrying one of our finest lords to one of those Unicorn
gaijin? How are we expected to bear such an insult?”
Matsu Seijuro knew better than to interrupt his
brother at a time like this, and yet: “We do as we are
commanded. The Emperor wants this match.”
“Does he indeed?” Agetoki whirled around to
face Seijuro. “Then I wonder if he seeks to weaken us,
through infection.”
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Intolerance anxiety:
$ A particular hate festers within you for a group
of people (or even supernatural beings), and
it overwhelms your better judgment when you
are faced with members or representatives of
this group. Choose one group of people or
supernatural beings to be your hated enemies.
When you are in the presence of these beings
(and even when they are mentioned), your
enmity is evident to all who observe you.
$ After performing a check to interact with a
member of the chosen group (such as a Com-
merce [Water] check to bargain with someone
from a family that once wronged your own or a
Composition [Water] check to translate from the
language of a group of foreigners you dislike
due to a battle you fought against their people),
you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this has
occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Irrepressible Flirtation (Earth)
“So I snuck through the estate to her ladyship’s
apartments and waited for the servants to leave before
reciting the poem I had devised in her honor. You can
imagine my embarrassment when it was not Lady Fujiko’s
voice that answered me from behind the curtains.”
The patrons of the inn hung on my every word. One
of them rushed over and put a fresh bowl of wine in my
hand. “What did you do?”
“Well,” I said, taking a long sip of the wine, “I
introduced myself to the lady who was there.”
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Irrepressible Flirtation anxiety:
$ You find it difficult to pass up the chance to flirt
with people you find attractive, and when some-
one you find attractive flirts with you, you cannot
help but return their advances with your own flir-
tation. Your interest is obvious to all onlookers.
$ After performing a check to interact with (or
ignore) someone you are interested in without
exceeding propriety (such as a Courtesy [Earth]
check to make appropriate small talk or a Sen-
timent [Earth] check to know how to tread cau-
tiously in a social scene), you receive 3 strife. If
this is the first time this has occurred this scene,
gain 1 Void point.
Jealousy (Air)
The story is told of Shiba Shikitora, a Phoenix Clan
courtier in Otosan Uchi during the reign of Hantei XXXI,
who was so incensed by her rival, a court poet named
Kakita Sanuki, that she would try to outdo her in all things.
If Sanuki presented a poem, Shikitora would present
one on the following night in an effort to be the most
praiseworthy. If Sanuki wore a beautiful kimono, then the
one worn by Shikitora must be ten times as lovely.
Sanuki’s heart was broken due to an ill-fated love,
and she threw herself from the roof of the Imperial
Palace. Everyone was saddened by this and spoke
admiringly of the late poet who had died for love.
Shiba Shikitora threw herself from a roof twice as
high on the next day.
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Jealousy anxiety:
$ You cannot voluntarily pass up an opportunity
to one-up a rival or demonstrate your superiori-
ty over someone in the eyes of others.
$ After performing a check to compete with
someone to demonstrate your excellence (such
as a Performance [Air] check to convince an
audience of something before a rival can or
a Smithing [Air] check to refine a weapon to
perfection before presenting it as a gift to your
lord), you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time
this has occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Materialism (Void)
“All lust is grief, and born of too great an attachment
to this world, even as the shadow follows the shape.
We grasp at it like monkeys trying to snatch at the
moon’s reflection on the surface of water.”
– Tao of Shinsei
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Materialism anxiety:
$ You are obsessed with physical possessions and
objects, despite what the Tao of Shinsei says
about such material earthly bonds. You cannot
refuse gifts of rarity 3 or higher.
$ After performing a check to give up a physical
object in your possession or other thing of val-
ue (such as a Government [Void] check to find
a way to sacrifice a holding to gain a political
advantage over a rival), you suffer 3 strife. If this
is the first time this has occurred this scene, you
gain 1 Void point.
Meekness (Fire)
“Do you have something to add, Takeshiro?” Abbot
Kenzo looked up from the scrolls he was transcribing
to where the young initiate was sweeping the floor.
Takeshiro became focused upon a particularly dirty
section of the chamber. He tried to respond, yet all that
came out was a strangled mumble. He had wanted to
point out the rainwater that had begun to drip from
the patchy roof and was in danger of wetting the
ancient scrolls, but he could not work up the courage.
“Hmm,” the abbot nodded. “I thought not.”
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Meekness anxiety:FLIRTING WITH PCS
Topics of romance or
sexuality can some-
times make people
uncomfortable. If
your character is an
irrepressible flirt, you
should still make sure
your fellow players
are comfortable
before roleplaying any
flirtation or romantic
overtures between your
character and theirs.
(This also applies if
you’re the GM!)
$
$ You are extremely shy, and you struggle to
stand up for yourself. You cannot interrupt peo-
ple of higher status, and you find it very hard to
assert yourself over anyone, including people
of lower status.
$ After performing a check to stand out or get what
you need (such as a Command [Fire] check to
inspire troops under your command or a Govern-
ment [Fire] check to assess your rights on a mat-
ter), you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this
has occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Painful Honesty (Air)
A popular, if bawdy, song at many roadside inns in
Rokugan, “The Honest Husband” is the story of a
staunch-hearted farmer who can never tell a lie. The
song progresses through several verses where he is
faced with questions from his wife about her weight,
the attractiveness of her sister, and other increasingly
risky (and risqué) situations. The song’s refrain of “you
know I love you, dearest, but I cannot tell a lie” has
become on its own a catchphrase, used jokingly when
a person is asked difficult questions.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Painful Honesty anxiety:
$ You are tormented by internal conflict when you
lie or allow a lie to pass. You cannot make claims
you know to be false, although you can say
technically truthful things that imply untruths, if
politeness or circumstances demand it.
$ After you make a check to mislead someone
else (such as a Courtesy [Air] check to falsely
besmirch someone’s reputation or a Command
[Air] check to manipulate an underling), you
receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this has
occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Paranoia (Water)
“A person who sees enemies everywhere is always
blind to their truest enemy, for that enemy is behind
their eyes.”
–Tao of Shinsei
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Paranoia anxiety:
$ In every shadow, you see assassins, and in
every smile, you see a rival in pursuit of your
undoing. This fear makes it very hard for you
to rely upon others, and it might distract you
from real threats. You cannot relax unless you
have confirmed vital information (such as your
current safety) for yourself.
$ After performing a check to identify danger
in your environment (such as a Government
[Water] check to know the political currents in
a court or a Sentiment [Water] check to sense
if someone’s intentions toward you are hostile),
you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this
has occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Perfectionism (Water)
In the Imperial Palace at Otosan Uchi, in a room
entirely dedicated to this purpose, a painting is on
display. It is not a mounted screen but rather a simple
length of paper, tacked on a piece of wood. It depicts
the morning mist rising from the Bay of the Golden
Sun, with fisherfolk heading out for the day’s catch. It
is a sublime work of art, although unfinished…and it is
also the most valuable painting in all of Rokugan.
It is the sole surviving painting of Master Jun. It
was the painting he was working on when he died.
None of Jun’s other paintings exist, because as soon
as he would finish one, he would reflect upon some
imperfection or flaw in the work, and burn it.
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Perfectionism anxiety:
$ Anything short of perfection in your work is
unacceptable to you, and you have been known
to create works of beauty only to cast them
aside over some perceived flaw. You cannot help
but try to improve any work in which you identify
a flaw, even if it means informing someone of
higher status of an error they have made.
$ After performing a check in which you must
interact with an imperfect or unfinished work
(such as an Aesthetics [Water] check to improve
an existing piece of art or a Composition [Water]
check to translate a work without losing any of
the nuance present in the original language),
you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this has
occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Phobia (Water)
Lord Shosuro Kosugi was said to have been terrified
of black crows, having been plagued by recurring
dreams of a black crow as a harbinger of his death. He
stationed archers all around his castle and in specially
built hunting blinds for miles around his lands, with
standing orders for any black crow to be shot on sight.
It is said that he was found dead in his chambers,
his face twisted into a rictus of terror. On the floor of
the room was a single black feather.
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Phobia anxiety:
$ Choose something mundane. You have a debil-
itating fear of this thing. You cannot speak its
name. In its presence, you cannot hide your
fear, and you attempt to flee if at all possible.
$ After performing a check to deal with your
phobia (such as a Courtesy [Water] check to
talk pleasantly about the subject or a Survival
[Water] check to identify it as the thing you
fear), you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time
this has occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Softheartedness (Fire)
“Go,” I said, breaking the bandit’s bow over my knee.
“Leave. I never want to see you in our lands again.”
The bandit, barely more than a boy, looked
nervously at Utatsu, who scowled and leaned heavily
on his spear. The young bandit looked back to me.
“Go on. Get out of here,” I repeated. He didn’t
require more urging, and he scampered down the
road as fast has his skinny legs could carry him.
“You should have killed him,” Utatsu grumbled.
“Robbing people at arrow point is not a boy’s prank.”
“I’ve had my fill of killing,” I said. “If I had struck
him down, he would not have learned anything. This
way, he has a chance.”
Utatsu shook his head at my folly as we headed
back to the village.
Types: Interpersonal, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Softheartedness anxiety:
$ If given the choice to kill someone or show
mercy, you always spare their life, even if it is
not in your interest to let them live.
$ After performing a check that addresses or
involves killing others or letting them die (such as
a Government [Fire] check to estimate the burden
a war would place on the common people or a
Martial Arts [Ranged] [Fire] check to shoot to kill),
you receive 3 strife. If this is the first time this has
occurred this scene, gain 1 Void point.
Superstition (Void)
“A great deal of folk wisdom revolves around death.
Peasants will avoid the number four because the
pronunciation is close to one of the words that means
‘death.’ Chopsticks should never be stuck upright in
rice, as this mimics the placement of a ceremonial
bowl upon the altar at a funeral. And one should never,
ever write a person’s name in red ink, as the names on
grave markers always are painted in red.”
–Observances of Empire, by Moto Kojiro
Types: Mental, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Superstition anxiety:
$ When faced with signs of the supernatural, you
become visibly agitated, and you attempt to
leave the scene, appease the being or phe-
nomenon in question, or acquire supernatural
protection of some kind.
$ After performing a check to interact with or
learn about a supernatural being or phenome-
non (such as a Meditation [Void] check to per-
ceive the presence of a supernatural being or a
Theology [Void] check to know a supernatural
being’s designs or desires), you receive 3 strife.
If this is the first time this has occurred this
scene, gain 1 Void point.
