Ebisu’s Blessing (EArTh)
Ryuichi, a poor blacksmith, entered the championship
with a sword of his own making and a patchwork set of
mismatched armor.
The day before he was to begin the tournament,
his armor was stolen by a thief—perhaps at the behest
of another competitor. Crestfallen, Ryuichi prepared to
return home.
However, on the day of the tournament, he awoke to
a brand new suit of armor, made by the fellow laborers
to whom he had always shown kindness. Clad in his new
armor, Ryuichi won the tournament that year and was
made a samurai in the service of the Kaiu family.
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Ebisu’s Blessing distinction:
$ Laborers recognize you as a kindred spirit, and
characters with status 30 or lower are innately trust-
ing of you unless you give them reason not to be.
$ When performing a check for which the bless-
ing of this Fortune is useful (such as a Com-
merce [Earth] check to safely transport goods
or a Labor [Earth] check to plow a field), you
may reroll up to two dice.
FAmously HonesT (Air)
Nobody thought that Hida Suzu’s marriage to Kakita
Hideaki was auspicious, least of all Suzu herself, who made
her feelings about Crane pretentiousness quite plain on
several occasions. And yet, decades later, Grandmother
Suzu’s time is highly sought-after in the Esteemed Palace
of the Crane, for in a land of insinuation, advice one can
trust without scrutiny is invaluable.
Types: Fame, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Famously Honest distinction:
$ Other people have heard of you for your hon-
esty, and they believe you by default unless
given evidence to the contrary.
$ When performing a check for which you can
leverage your reputation for telling the truth
(such as a Command [Air] check to convince
someone of a statement’s veracity, or a Com-
merce [Air] check to sell an item at an inflated
price), you may reroll up to two dice.
FAmously LuCky (Void)
“A master is one who leaves their mark upon the
world through their endeavors. In such undertakings,
four great influences may affect the outcome:
Proficiency, Preparedness, Destiny, and Luck.
Despite humanity’s beliefs, the greatest of these is Luck.”
– Tao of Shinsei
Types: Fame, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Famously Lucky distinction:
$ Other people have heard of you for your good
fortune, and they believe it by default unless
given evidence to the contrary.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to leverage your reputation for having things
turn out your way (such as a Command [Void]
check to get your troops to put their faith
in you utterly or a Games [Void] check to let
fate decide the match), you may reroll up to
two dice.
FAmously ReliAble (EArTh)
When the lord came to see how the smith was
proceeding on his sword, he found the smithy a
shambles, the river running through the forge, and the
smith with his robes tied up around his middle.
“Tsi-san,” said the great lord. “I trust my sword will
be ready tomorrow, as we agreed?”
“Of course, great lord,” said the smith, bowing
low. “This is only a minor setback.”
– The Trials of Tsi Wenfu, author unknown
Types: Fame, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Famously Reliable distinction:
$ Other people have heard of you for your
remarkable adherence to your oaths and
responsibilities, even over and above most
samurai, and they believe it by default unless
given evidence to the contrary.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to leverage your reputation for keeping your
oaths and bargains (such as a Command
[Earth] check to calm a panicked soldier or
a Performance [Earth] check to relate a tale
that inspires patience), you may reroll up to
two dice.
104
C H A P T E R 2 : C R E AT I N G A C H ARACTER
FAmously SuCCessful (Fire)
“Victory will make even the most honorable of samurai
forget the stains of your dishonor. Seize victory and
your legend will speak only of your greatness. Akodo
knew this, even if he dared not put it to words.”
– Bayushi Kiriko’s commentary on Leadership
Types: Fame, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Famously Successful distinction:
$ Other people have heard of you for your ability
to get results at any cost, and they believe it by
default unless given evidence to the contrary.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to leverage your reputation for efficiency (such
as a Courtesy [Fire] check to convince your lord
to give you a position or a Tactics [Fire] check
to get enemy troops to withdraw in the face of
a show of force), you may reroll up to two dice.
FAmously WeAlThy (WATer)
“Wealth isn’t the same as money. A merchant who
works hard and gets lucky can get rich, but she won’t
attain a reputation for wealth until she learns to
spend it.” Kasuga Kana picked up the barley tea and
sipped, admiring the view of Friendly Traveler Village’s
dingy streets.
“But master, you hardly ever spend money. We
made this journey on foot!”
Kana turned back to her apprentice. “We aren’t
merchants, Goro. Money helps us serve the Emperor,
but a warm welcome in a fine inn when we arrive in
town would make our real job that much harder.”
Types: Fame, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Famously Wealthy distinction:
$ Other people have heard of you for your
riches or ability to procure wealth, and they
believe it by default unless given evidence to
the contrary.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to leverage your reputation for access to
resources (such as a Commerce [Water] check
to buy goods on credit or a Courtesy [Water]
check to win over a group of people), you may
reroll up to two dice.
FlexibiliTy (WATer)
The door to the cell opened with a crash, and the guard
stood there, dumbfounded. The prisoner, Nekoma
Katsushiro, was nowhere to be seen, and the ropes that
had bound him lay pooled in the center of the room.
As the guard entered the cell, he was suddenly
struck on the head by a heavy wooden food bowl and
slumped to the floor, unconscious.
Katsushiro dropped from where he had braced
himself between the two ceiling beams, landing
lightly, without a sound. “Let that be a lesson to you.
Everyone knows that you can’t tie up a cat.”
Types: Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Flexibility distinction:
$ You can fit through spaces too tight for most
people, allowing you access to places others
cannot reach.
$ When performing a check for which your physi-
cal flexibility is a benefit (such as a Performance
[Water] check to perform a dance or a Martial
Arts [Unarmed] [Water] check to grapple anoth-
er person), you may reroll up to two dice.
Fukurokujin’s Blessing (Fire)
The Sacred Library is located at Fire Tooth Castle. It
contains an untold number of ancient manuscripts,
organized in a manner that only the shugenja of the
Agasha family can understand. No outsiders are permitted
to enter, no scrolls are permitted to leave the premises,
and if any petitioner requires information held within its
walls, a librarian is tasked to retrieve it for them—and then,
only with the written permission of the Agasha daimyō.
Types: Mental, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Fukurokujin’s Blessing distinction:
$ You always know the nearest location where
you can undertake research on a given subject,
and can complete research in half the time it
would take another character.
$ When performing a check for which the blessing
of this Fortune is a benefit (such as a Medicine
[Fire] check to experiment with a cure for a
strange new malady or a Survival [Fire] check to
speculate on a creature’s possible qualities based
on its physiology), you may reroll up to two dice.
105
CHAPTER 2: CREATING A CHARACTER
IndomiTAble Will (EArTh)
The travelers cowered as the ghost, shrieking hideously,
drifted toward them from the ruins of the ancient
temple where they’d chosen to make camp for the
night. The moonlight lent the spirit an unearthly glow,
and its howls echoed in their ears as it grew ever closer.
“It is a gaki—a hungry ghost!” shouted Yogo
Kikuyo, stepping between the travelers and the spirit
as she rummaged through her bag.
“Are you not afraid?” shouted one of her
companions, as he clutched at her waist, trying to
draw her back from the wailing apparition.
“I am not,” Kikuyo said, as she drew a paper ofuda
talisman, inscribed with blessings, from her satchel. “I
am familiar with its sort.”
Types: Mental, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Indomitable Will distinction:
$ You can always choose to stand your ground,
even when faced with untenable odds, super-
natural terrors, or sorcerous powers that bend
the minds of lesser souls.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to keep your cool when dealing with danger
(such as a Command [Earth] check to give
orders under pressure or a Meditation [Earth]
check to resist the effects of fear), you may
reroll up to two dice.
Jurojin’s Blessing (Void)
The Order of Longevity, a sect of the Brotherhood
of Shinsei, was founded in the seventh century to
provide healing to people suffering during the Great
Famine. The order trains its initiates in the treatment
of disease, infection, and wounds, and it offers solace
and shelter to those in need. Many of the order are
extremely long-lived, remaining in good health long
into their autumn years.
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Jurojin’s Blessing distinction:
$ You do not contract mundane diseases, and
you recover from poisons and supernatu-
ral maladies in half the time it would take
someone else.
$ When performing a check for which you need to
survive and remain vital (such as a Fitness [Void]
check to resist spiritual contamination or a Survival
[Void] check to get by on bare minimum supplies),
you may reroll up to two dice.
Keen BAlAnCe (EArTh)
During the Obon Festival of 1120, in the City of the
Open Hand, Bayushi Aramoro, the half-brother of the
Scorpion Clan Champion, was challenged by a rival
to a race from one side of the city to the other, as a
test of how well they knew the twists and turns of the
many alleys.
Aramoro watched calmly, eating an apple, as his
rival broke into a run, quickly disappearing into the
labyrinthine warrens of the city streets. He finished the
apple, walked over to the nearest building, and scaled
the wall, rapidly reaching the roof. Then, dashing
across the rooftops of the city with unerring accuracy,
he arrived at the agreed-upon finish line a full half an
hour before his opponent.
Types: Mental, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Keen Balance distinction:
$ When moving across treacherous terrain (such
as rooftops or the rigging of a ship), as long as
nobody is hindering you, you do not fall.
$ When performing a check for which your balance
is a benefit (such as a Fitness [Earth] check to
resist being knocked down or moved or a Sea-
faring [Earth] check to withstand getting seasick
during a storm), you may reroll up to two dice.
106
Keen HeAring (Air)
Kakita Toshimoko crept silently across the darkened
bedchamber, bearing his katana in one hand. With the
other, he reached out and gently shook the sleeping
form of Doji Hotaru, the Crane Clan Champion.
Immediately, she was awake and reaching for the
blade at her bedside.
Toshimoko quickly raised his finger to his lips,
bidding her to keep silent. She nodded, and rose
from the bed, drawing her sword. Toshimoko leaned
forward, so that Hotaru alone could hear him whisper.
“The castle has been breached.” He cocked his
head slightly. “Five, clothed lightly, on the roof.” He
moved his head slowly, focusing on sounds that only
he could hear. “One of them is carrying a kusari-gama.
Its chain rattles slightly.”
“Shinobi,” Hotaru breathed.
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Keen Hearing distinction:
$ You can hear noises that others do not detect,
and you can assess your environment by sound
alone. Even in darkness, you can accurately
pinpoint the location of people and other mov-
ing objects in your immediate vicinity.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to hear soft, distant, or subtle noises (such as a
Courtesy [Air] check to eavesdrop at a distance
where you are not noticed or a Survival [Air]
check to listen to an animal’s movement before
springing a trap), you may reroll up to two dice.
Keen SighT (WATer)
Kitsuki Yuikimi walked slowly around the corpse of Lady
Shimada, three times, pausing briefly several times on
her way. Magistrate Koshigi grew more impatient with
each passing moment.
“Well, as you can see, your time has been wasted
here,” the magistrate rumbled. “Now, if you’ll excuse
me, I need to have a message sent to Lord Shimada
that his wife has passed away...”
“Murdered,” muttered Yuikimi.
“Excuse me?”
“Lady Shimada did not pass away; she was
murdered. I spotted a slight discoloration of her
thumbs. I think you’ll find that the letter there on her
desk is the cause. The paper has been soaked in a
rare poison—it left the discoloration on the tips of her
thumbs when she held the paper to read...like so.” She
pantomimed a demonstration, holding an imaginary
letter before her.
“How in the world did you spot that?” Koshigi
asked, amazed.
“I looked,” said Yuikimi.
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Keen Sight distinction:
$ You can spot details of objects at a much great-
er distance than others can, and you pick up on
small visual details that others might overlook.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to spot details or see things at a distance (such
as an Aesthetics [Water] check to spot minor
details in an art piece or a Martial Arts [Ranged]
[Water] check to hit a faraway target), you may
reroll up to two dice.
Keen Smell (Fire)
The bandits had been plaguing the village of Nemuro
for several weeks, striking at random and disappearing
back into the forest. The villagers had asked their lord
for aid, and Hiruma Kogoe, the famed archer and
tracker, was dispatched.
Kogoe led a handful of brave villagers into the
woods to put an end to the bandit problem once and
for all. Several hours into the forest, she held her hand
up, motioning for the group to come to a halt.
“Got them. They’re in a camp, two...” She sniffed
the air. “...two and a half miles east of here. The fools
lit a cooking fire.”
Types: Physical, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Keen Smell distinction:
$ You always remember scents you have expe-
rienced before, and you can identify by smell
things that others would certainly overlook.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to use your sense of smell (such as a Labor
[Fire] check to experiment with a new recipe or
a Survival [Fire] check to determine if a plant is
poisonous based on its smell), you may reroll
up to two dice.
107
CHAPTER 2: CREATING A CHARACTER
KArmiC Tie (Void)
She walked over one thousand li, slept in shrines or under
farmer’s carts, ate millet and drank nothing but well-
water. Bit by bit, she sold her finery and what few jewels
she had, even the sandals from her feet, until all she had
were her swords and a kimono dusty from the road.
Mirumoto Kanako came at last to the castle of her
soul’s twin. How she longed to finally lay eyes on this
person who held half her self in their heart.
Types: Interpersonal, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Karmic Tie distinction:
$ You have a supernatural tie with another char-
acter of your choosing, and as if you had a sixth
sense, you can tell when the character to whom
you are karmically tied is in danger or has died.
You always know the general direction they are
located in, even if they are separated from you
by thousands of li.
$ When performing a check to act on behalf of
the one with whom you share a bond (such as a
Composition [Void] check to express your tru-
est feelings in a poem or a Martial Arts [Melee]
[Void] check to fight on their behalf), you may
reroll up to two dice.
KisshōTen’s Blessing (WATer)
Children in Rokugan are welcomed into the world with
the reverence given to an old friend, for indeed, one
never knows the child’s past life identity.
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the Kis-
shōten’s Blessing distinction:
$ Children enjoy being around you and are much
more receptive to your demands. Your own
children (if you have any) are particularly bless-
ed with health, beauty, happiness, and luck.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to communicate with children (such as a Com-
mand [Water] check to order them around or a
Performance [Water] check to entertain them),
you may reroll up to two dice.
LArge STATure (EArTh)
Many children’s stories feature tales of giants. They are
said to live in distant lands, but none have ever been
seen in Rokugan. If you were to ask the children of the
City of Remembrance, however, they would swear that
they have one in their town.
Isonashi, a samurai who serves the governor of the
city, stands nearly double the height of an average
man and is easily three times as broad. He wields an
immense naginata built specifically for his size. If he
is not a giant, he’s the closest thing to one anyone in
Rokugan has ever seen.
Types: Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Large Stature distinction:
$ You can easily reach objects on high shelves,
are easy to spot in a crowd, can see over
other people, and tend to hit your head
on doorways.
$ When performing a check for which you can
take advantage of your size (such as a Fitness
[Earth] check to hold up a heavy object or a
Labor [Earth] check to build the frame of a
house), you may reroll up to two dice.
PArAgon of A Bushidō
TeneT (VArious)
“The heroes of myth—even the ones who were not
of divine blood—did not live as humans do. It is
impossible to embody an ideal without surpassing
some part of your own humanity.”
Types: Mental, Virtue
Pick One: Compassion (Water), Courage (Fire), Cour-
tesy (Air), Duty and Loyalty (Earth), Honor (Void), Righ-
teousness (Void), Sincerity (Void). A character may
have multiple instances of this advantage for different
tenets. Each tenet (Paragon of Courage, Paragon of
Courtesy, etc.) counts as a separate advantage, and
a character may have more than one such advantage.
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Paragon of a Bushidō Tenet distinction:
$ You believe utterly in the chosen Bushidō tenet,
and others instinctively discern that your actions
are genuine when you act in accordance with it.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to convince others of, or leverage your faith
in, the Bushidō tenet (such as a Performance
check to recount a tale that impresses its
importance upon others or a Martial Arts
[Melee] check to take up arms for this cause),
you may reroll up to two dice.
108
C H A P T E R 2 : C R E AT I N G A C H ARACTER
PreCise Memory (EArTh)
The great libraries of the Phoenix Clan’s Asako family
are home to a specialized group of scholars, renowned
across Rokugan for their tremendous natural talent for
memorization. The Asako Loremasters train in a special
school, sharpening their skills in research and delving
into multiple topics in order to intuit the connections
between different fields of study. This practice gives
them a nearly unique ability to grasp the connections
between apparently unrelated bits of information.
The Asako Libraries are a priceless repository of
knowledge, home to an unrivaled collection of original
manuscripts, yet the minds of the scholars themselves
are the greatest prize found within its walls.
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Precise Memory distinction:
$ You can recall anything you have read or heard
within the current game session exactly, and
you often dredge up older facts with much
greater ease than others.
$ When performing a check for which you must
recall details precisely (such as a Games [Earth]
check to recall the opening moves of a classic
defensive strategy in shōgi or a Government
[Earth] check to remember the specifics of a
historical event), you may reroll up to two dice.
QuiCk Reflexes (Fire)
The duelist Bayushi Eiya, known as the Artist of Death,
is renowned for three things: One: his intricate mask,
said by some to cover a small scar that marks his only
defeat and by others to conceal nothing at all. Two:
his ruthless sword—his dueling style inflicts maximum
punishment upon his opponent before delivering the
final stroke. And three: the speed of his attack. A great
calligrapher, he was inspired by the quick movements
of his brush, each stroke seeming to seek out lines on
its own. He transferred his art to the movement of his
blade, and now possesses a fluid and terrible grace.
Types: Physical, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Quick Reflexes distinction:
$ At the start of each scene, you can always grab
an item within reach or reposition it a few pac-
es within your environment. The GM is the final
arbiter of how much you can prepare or how
much distance you can achieve before the rest
of the scene begins.
$ When performing a check for which you must
act swiftly (such as a Meditation [Fire] check to
generate initiative during a duel or a Survival
[Fire] check to put together a makeshift weap-
on), you may reroll up to two dice.
SeAsoned (Void)
“If you’re here to stop me, you’re wasting your time.
I’ve made up my mind,” said Aika.
“Stop you?” Yayoi smiled. “I’m not here to stop
you. If this is the course your heart has set, I know I
can’t divert it. I stood on this road once, and I’ll walk it
again with you today.”
Aika took her aunt’s traveling pack and placed it on
the horse. “I’ll be making a fast pace, and I can’t afford
to be slowed by distractions or longwinded stories. If
you fall behind, I’m leaving you.”
Yayoi smiled. “Of course. Let’s make haste then. I
have an old friend who can ferry us to Broken Wave
City, and perhaps beyond.”
Types: Mental, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Seasoned distinction:
$ You are older and more worldly than most of
your fellows and have learned a few things
along the way. While you do not start with addi-
tional experience, your experience expenditures
might reflect “revealing” aspects of yourself you
have held back to avoid overshadowing your
younger companions. You have met members of
many cultures and organizations, and you know
how to properly behave in almost any city in
Rokugan—and perhaps even beyond. You also
know many other older people, and the number
and variety of your acquaintances often surprises
your younger companions.
$ When performing a check for which your hard-
earned wisdom is an advantage (such as a
Courtesy [Void] check to impart wisdom to an
impetuous comrade or a Theology [Void] check
to intuit whether a spirit will appreciate your
offering), you may reroll up to two dice.
109
CHAPTER 2: CREATING A CHARACTER
SixTh Sense (Void)
It is said that the Kuni Witch Hunters of the Crab Clan,
tasked with hunting down mahō-tsukai and other
servants of the Shadowlands that operate within the
Empire, have the ability to sense the presence of ghosts,
spirits, and other supernatural beings. The Witch Hunters
keep the Empire pure of the Taint of the Shadowlands,
and they have been granted authority to execute mahō-
tsukai and other practitioners of blood magic at their
sole discretion—at least within Crab lands.
Types: Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Sixth Sense distinction:
$ You have an instinctive sense of supernatural
beings, and you can feel the presence of spirits
and similar entities even when they have not
chosen to reveal themselves. This feeling is
ominous in the presence of beings with evil
intentions and neutral when the beings are
simply going about their business as usual.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to follow your hunches (such as a Meditation
[Void] check to generate initiative during a duel
or a Theology [Void] check to detect a snarl in
the invisible threads of the universe), you may
reroll up to two dice.
SmAll STATure (Air)
In the cities of Rokugan, there is a rumor of a clan of
shinobi known as the Urchins, named for their practice
of recruiting and training only those who might easily
pass as children to an untrained eye. Witnesses to the
assassination in 1102 of Lord Matsu Goden said that his
assailants were a group of children who then disappeared
into the city streets, which only served to fuel the rumor.
Types: Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Small Stature distinction:
$ You can fit into small spaces, can hide behind
other people, are hard to spot in a crowd, and
sometimes need assistance reaching objects on
high shelves.
$ When performing a check for which being small
is helpful (such as a Fitness [Air] check to resist
a critical strike by evading or a Skulduggery
[Air] check to pick someone’s pocket), you may
reroll up to two dice.
SubTle Observer (Air)
The lady of the house poured the tea, turning the cups
and performing all the rituals in perfect accord with
tradition. When she had finished, Kaitaro bowed low.
“My deepest apologies,” he said. “If I had realized you
were in mourning I would not have trespassed on your
hospitality. I had no idea you were so intimate with
your brother’s wife.”
Types: Interpersonal, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Subtle Observer distinction:
$ You can understand the cues that people give
off while speaking, and you can read people’s
lips and facial expressions to understand what
they are saying, even if you cannot hear them.
$ When performing a check for which you need
to spot or use small details of other people
nearby (such as a Courtesy [Air] check to reveal
an unpleasant truth pleasantly or a Sentiment
[Air] check to detect someone else’s weakness-
es), you may reroll up to two dice.
SupporT of [One Group] (WATer)
Akodo Emi avoided the rōnin’s stroke narrowly,
sweeping at his feet to gain distance. He was good,
yet she could beat him. But not quickly, and time was
her true enemy tonight.
Suddenly, a hail of slingstones clattered across the
ground near the rōnin’s feet. Down the street rushed
several figures wearing the Mon of the Sparrow.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Support of [One Group] distinction:
$ You have proven yourself to a particular group,
which is willing to help you when doing so will
not damage its reputation. Its members will offer
you their hospitality, including meals, a place to
rest, and medical attention if they have a healer.
They will also grant you access to their other
facilities, such as libraries, smithies, or stables.
Confer with the GM to select a campaign-appro-
priate group when choosing this advantage.
$ When performing a check to interact with the
members of the chosen group that relies on
your rapport (such as a Command [Water] check
to issue them orders or a Performance [Water]
check to cause an audience of them to desire
something), you may reroll up to two dice.
