AnimAl Bond (EArTh)
The rat ran down the length of the dungeon corridor
until it came to the cell at the end. Clenched in its
mouth was an iron ring, from which hung several keys.
“Good boy, Genki,” said Sorata, stretching his
fingers out beneath the heavy wooden door of his cell.
“Give them here. The innkeeper should have donated
that meal to me, to give luck to his establishment!
Imagine! Calling the magistrate. On me!”
The rat pushed the keys within reach, and Sorata
pulled them quickly beneath the door. “Yes, yes,”
Sorata continued as the rat squeaked. “I’m sure I have a
few crumbs of cheese for you. Just give me a moment.”
Types: Interpersonal, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Animal Bond passion:
$ Reciprocating your interest, a small, mundane
animal of some kind has attached itself to you.
Choose one silhouette 0 or 1 animal; it follows
you around wherever you go and generally acts
as your companion. It can be cajoled to do what
you want, but it might need incentives (usually
food) to perform difficult tasks on demand. If
you are granted an animal as part of your start-
ing outfit, that animal can be your companion
(regardless of the usual size restrictions).
$ After performing a check to interact with an
animal (such as a Medicine [Earth] check to
mend its injuries or a Survival [Earth] check to
calm it), you remove 3 strife.
ArmAmenT (EArTh)
“The craftsmanship on this truly is exquisite,” Ikoma
Eiji said, examining the spear on the table before
him. The weapon had an eight-foot shaft of
strong wood, surmounted by a two-foot
blade carved with intricate symbols.
“Great Fortunes! Do you realize
what this is? These carvings...” he ran
his finger along the crest engraved
into the metal of the blade. “This is
Kotoku, the ancestral weapon of the
Daidoji family!”
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Armament passion:
$ Unless the piece comes from outside of the
Emerald Empire, you know the name of any
weapon or piece of armor you encounter, are
aware of its function, and have a rudimentary
understanding of how to equip and wield it.
$ After performing a check to make or study
arms or armor (such as a Smithing [Earth] check
to polish a suit of armor or a Tactics [Earth]
check to know how to arrange a proper spear
formation), you remove 3 strife.
Brushwork (Air)
There are few arts more respected in Rokugan than
those of the calligrapher and painter. The grace and
precision of the brush, able to capture life or thought
upon paper, is a discipline that few master.
The greatest practitioners of the brush are revered
for more than just the works they produce; they are
admired for their mastery of self, the inward focus on
achievement through great effort.
Types: Mental, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Brushwork passion:
$ You can identify the signature styles of numer-
ous different schools and individual artists, as
well as common motifs and techniques.
$ After performing a check to study or practice
brushwork (such as an Aesthetics [Air] check to
assess a painting’s qualities and artist or a Com-
position [Air] check to add the finishing touches
to a letter written in calligraphy), you
remove 3 strife.
CHAPTER 2: CREATING A CHARACTER
CuriosiTy (Fire)
“A curious mind is a blessing. Yet, one should be
careful, when following the object of one’s whims of
the moment, that the object does not become like the
shining lure used to catch fish in a river. The fish who
chases the lure ends up over rice.”
– Analects of Nabeshima
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Curiosity passion:
$ The first time you attempt a new task and fail,
you always think of another route you could
take to try to overcome or learn more about
the problem.
$ After performing a check to seek answers to an
intriguing question (such as a Medicine [Fire]
check to create a new chemical concoction
or a Theology [Fire] check to try to determine
the metaphysical underpinnings of a particular
kami’s behavior), you remove 3 strife.
DAredevil (Fire)
“Those who fear to act have already failed.
Lose your fear, and gain the world.”
–Tao of Shinsei
Types: Mental, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Daredevil passion:
$ You can risk your life without consideration or
hesitation, even if the potential consequences
are obvious and dire.
$ After performing a check to risk your life (such as
a Fitness [Fire] check to resist a critical strike or
a Games [Fire] check to win a contest in a flashy
and physically risky way), you remove 3 strife.
EnlighTenmenT (Void)
For some, the Tao of Shinsei is like a road map left by
the great teacher but written in a code that must be
deciphered. For others, it is a process of abandoning
the self and freeing the soul of all illusions, to see
the universe as it is. Yet others claim that there is no
Enlightenment, only an endless process of insight and
awakening, an opening of doors that only lead to more
doors to be opened: the goal is the journey itself.
Types: Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Enlightenment passion:
$ You feel no attachment to mundane items
and earthly titles; you cannot be tempted with
material wealth or the promise of power.
$ After performing a check to detach yourself from
material concerns (such as a Meditation [Void]
check to contemplate your place in the universe
or a Survival [Void] check to exist in harmony
with your environment), you remove 3 strife.
FAshion (Fire)
Akodo Fudai stood before the polished mirror as
the tailors worked around him, wheeling and turning
like birds in a flock. Silk was layered upon silk, and
patterned with fine brocade etching out flowers and
trees. It was a flattering effect, and he would be certain
to cut a dashing figure at the Crane’s Winter Court.
I despise the Crane, he thought, but even I must
admit, they know how to make a fine kimono.
Types: Interpersonal, Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Fashion passion:
$ You always know the current trends in your home
region, and you can identify what is in vogue (and
how to take advantage of that fact) in a new place
after spending one or more scenes there.
$ After performing a check to interact with
clothes, jewelry, or other worn works of art
(such as a Culture [Fire] check to theorize about
what others might wear at the next Winter
Court or a Design [Fire] check to create a stun-
ning work), you remove 3 strife.
ForTune-Telling (Void)
“For the second time this month, the constellation of the
Flying Carp was obscured by a darkness without apparent
source, and the moon appeared to have a golden cast
to its light, with the Five Sisters glowing brightly directly
above. This portends misfortune. Any child born under
this inauspicious sign will surely come to a sad end.”
– From the diary of Imperial Astrologer Seppun Seimei
Types: Mental, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Fortune-Telling passion:
112
C H A P T E R 2 : C R E AT I N G A C H ARACTER
$ You can identify any common portents (such as
constellations and other stellar phenomena, the
cracks in oracle bones, the appearance of certain
animals, and various other signs of things to
come), along with their implications for the future.
$ After performing a check to discern the future
(such as a Survival [Void] check to look for small
omens in your earthly environs or a Theology
[Void] check to perform a divination by reading
the stars), you remove 3 strife.
GenerosiTy (WATer)
During the sixth month of the year after the biannual
collection of taxes, the city of Ryokō Owari Toshi
celebrates the Days of Generosity. As the festival begins,
the head priest of the local temple draws a name in a
lottery. The person whose name is drawn becomes
“King of Generosity” and “rules” over the festival.
The festival is marked by gift giving and
drunkenness. The festival king decides who the best
gift giver is on each of the celebration’s three days.
That person receives a portion of the “king’s purse,” a
collection of coins given to the festival king to pay him
for blessing the giver with a prosperous year ahead.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Generosity passion:
$ You can always identify a proper gift for a par-
ticular person that does not risk giving offense
or slighting them publicly.
$ After performing a check to acquire or give a
gift (such as a Design [Water] check to select an
item that complements someone’s wardrobe or
a Commerce [Water] check to find and select a
gift at a market), you remove 3 strife.
Gossip (Air)
The courts of Rokugan are a battlefield as deadly as
any in war. The weapons are rumor, and innuendo, and
sharpened tongues. The wrong word in the right ear
can spell the end of a career, a loss of standing, or
even a loss of life.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Gossip passion:
$ At the start of each scene, you can always iden-
tify the character present who will know the
juiciest rumors (besides yourself, obviously).
$ After performing a check to spread or receive
rumors (such as a Courtesy [Air] check to cast
someone in a certain light when telling a story
about them or a Culture [Air] check to read peo-
ple’s current anxieties from the subtle ways they
obey or break etiquette), you remove 3 strife.
HisTory (EArTh)
“A samurai is no more than the sum of their memories;
an Empire no more than the sum of its history.”
– Analects of Nabeshima
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
History passion:
$ After a short time spent studying it, you can
discern the era and context of any object,
structure, or text you encounter—or else you
know for certain that no chronicler of the Emer-
ald Empire has encountered this thing before.
$ After performing a check to remember a his-
torical anecdote (such as a Government [Earth]
check to draw parallels to past events or a
Smithing [Earth] check to know about past uses
of and trends in the creation of tools and arti-
facts), you remove 3 strife.
IkebAnA (WATer)
The art of flower arranging is practiced by many nobles
of Rokugan. It is considered a subtle and beautiful
form of expression, one that follows traditions and
methods that go back centuries.
The art reaches its zenith in the creation of a story
garden, in which an ikebana master carefully arranges
flowers to relate a particular tale, which unfolds for the
visitor as they wander the garden paths.
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Ikebana passion:
$ You can always identify a plant by any of its
parts, and you know its physical properties and
its hanakotoba (“language of flowers”) meaning.
$ After performing a check related to flower
arrangement (such as an Aesthetics [Water]
check to rearrange or improve an ikebana piece
or a Survival [Water] check to acquire flowers
from a marketplace), you remove 3 strife.
113
CHAPTER 2: CREATING A CHARACTER
PlAyfulness (Air)
The warriors had been drinking most of the evening.
It had been a long day, and the respite was welcome.
Todoma, the largest of the group and well in his
cups, clumsily laid his sword upon the table they
shared, knocking over a few drinks in the process.
Over the sounds of protest, he declared. “From this
day forward, I shall call my blade ‘Heaven Cutter’!”
Oriko slapped her friend on the back and replied
“Oh? You should hear what it calls you!” The assembled
warriors roared with laughter, which, in the end, even
Todoma joined.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Playfulness passion:
$ When you say something untoward to some-
one of lower or equal status, they write it off as
your playful nature instead of being significant-
ly angered or saddened by it.
$ After performing a check to gently mock or
chide someone (such as a Composition [Air]
check to find the parts of a rival’s poem that
you can echo with parody in your next piece or
a Courtesy [Air] check to tease someone with a
clever pun on their name), you remove 3 strife.
ProvoCATion (Fire)
A popular pastime at Winter Court, the game of Sadane
is a test of quick thinking and sharp tongues in which
two contestants take turns exchanging politely worded
insults. Each insult must be a new contribution to the
argument; no repetitions or thematic restatements are
permitted. The criticisms continue until one participant
admits defeat or merely is at a loss for words. Losing
one’s temper is considered a major breach of etiquette,
as is saying anything overtly impolite.
Types: Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Provocation passion:
$ You can always identify a point of sensitivity
that you can push upon in another per-
son—though not whether they will take
your comment as slightly aggressive
banter or a grave insult.
$ After performing a check to get a rise out of
someone (such as a Courtesy [Fire] check to
call someone by an aggravating nickname or
a Command [Fire] check to get a group of sol-
diers passionate and angry enough to storm an
enemy position), you remove 3 strife.
SAke (WATer)
In the lands of the Crane Clan, the village of Sakura no
Yuki famously brews a very rare sake, known as Cherry
Blossom Snow. Despite its flawless clarity, this sake
features the subtle scent and flavor of cherries. The
recipe for producing it is a closely guarded secret known
only to the master brewers of the village and the daimyō
of the Asahina family, on whose land the village lies.
Types: Mental
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Sake passion:
$ You can identify regional variations in sake and
other alcohol, and you know a great deal about
the various processes involved in making sake.
It takes you twice as much alcohol as it does
anyone else to become intoxicated.
$ After performing a check to interact with the
fine art of fermented beverages (such as a
Courtesy [Water] check to serve alcohol accord-
ing to proper procedure in a social setting or
a Labor [Water] check to ferment rice), you
remove 3 strife.
C H A P T E R 2 : C R E AT I N G A C H ARACTER
SeCreTs (Void)
There is no thrill to compare to having a secret. It’s a
thrill so delicious, it must be shared, for what is the
purpose of knowing what no one else knows, if no
one knows you know it? Especially in an Empire as
concerned with seeming and public face as Rokugan,
secrets are both currency and delight to many in the
courts.
Types: Mental, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Secrets passion:
$ You never forget a secret you have heard, and
you instinctively know if something you have
heard is common knowledge or information
someone wants concealed (even if you do not
know who or why).
$ After performing a check to acquire or preserve
a secret (such as a Meditation [Void] check
to resist efforts to pry a secret from you or a
Sentiment [Void] check to have a hunch about
whether someone is concealing a dreadful
secret), you remove 3 strife.
STories (EArTh)
A person with the ability to weave a tale by a fireside
will often find that they need no coin for food or drink,
and, if the stories are particularly good, an innkeeper
may offer a room (or at least a bale of hay in the stable)
in return for entertaining the customers for an evening.
A storyteller must be careful to choose the right stories
for a particular audience, however. Tales considered by
the locals to be scandalous or insulting may result in
the necessity of a quick exit.
Types: Mental, Interpersonal
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Stories passion:
$ You can recall any story you have been told,
including the details that others would gloss
over or forget.
$ After performing a check to recall or tell a story
(such as a Performance [Earth] check to spin a
tale to hearten comrades or a Theology [Earth]
check to recite a passage from the Tao of Shin-
sei or Akodo’s Leadership that is applicable to
your situation), you remove 3 strife.
TeA (Void)
“Without the bastions of civility that are teahouses,
the Empire would surely collapse into chaos.”
– Kakita Yoshi, Daimyō of the Kakita Family
Types: Physical, Spiritual
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Tea passion:
$ You can identify regional variations in tea, and
you know a great deal about the process of
preparing and drying leaves. In the wilder-
ness, you can acquire the natural ingredients
required to make rustic teas of various sorts
with relative ease.
$ After performing a check to interact with tea
(such as a Medicine [Void] check to brew a tea
with ingredients that help the body recover from
illness or a Performance [Void] check to perform
a tea ceremony that helps the recipients contem-
plate their state in life), you remove 3 strife.
TrAvel (WATer)
The old man sat heavily on the stool outside the
constabulary office. He removed his straw hat, wiped
his brow with his sleeve, and returned the hat to his
head. His eyes, shaded by the wide brim, looked out
at Yūka. The young girl smiled.
“Young lady, I have been from one side of Rokugan
to the other—from Khanbulak to the Islands of Silk
and Spice—and I have seen amazing sights. I will tell
you this: in all my travels, I have become convinced of
three things.” He counted them off on gnarled fingers.
“All crows are black, it always rains when you don’t
want it to, and Rokugan’s greatest treasure—a prize
without equal—is its people.”
Types: Mental, Physical
Effects: The following apply to a character with the
Travel passion:
$ You are not unsettled by foreign customs,
and you can comfortably fit in even in
strange environments.
$ After performing a check to travel to a new loca-
tion or interact with a novel thing (such as a Sur-
vival [Water] check to try to identify a new plant,
animal, or phenomenon, or a Seafaring [Water]
check to travel by boat), you remove 3 str
