Doji Bureaucrat School [Courtier]
The Crane Clan’s Doji Bureaucrats are formidable
negotiators and researchers capable of understanding
complex systems of commerce, bureaucracy, and the
esoteric laws that govern them. They scrutinize covertly
obtained journals, ledgers, and private missives to
maintain their mastery of history and culture. Their
familiarity with Rokugani law allows them to better nav-
igate the complexities of the Imperial Court while turn-
ing the intricacies of the law against their rivals in other
clans. More so than members of any other school, Doji
Bureaucrats have close relationships with the Impe-
rial families, and they can use those relationships to
amplify their authority in intrigues. Whereas Doji Dip-
lomats use their charm and interpersonal savvy to earn
the assistance of other courtiers, Doji Bureaucrats use
their extensive knowledge base to outmaneuver oppo-
nents in intellectual debate.
Rings: +1 Earth, +1 Water
Starting Skills (choose five): +1 Command, +1 Com-
position, +1 Courtesy, +1 Culture, +1 Games, +1 Gov-
ernment, +1 Meditation
Honor: 55
Techniques Available: Rituals, Shūji
Starting Techniques:
$ Shūji: Courtier’s Resolve, Stonewall Tactics
Procedure and Protocol (School Ability): When you
cause a character to receive strife as a result of a check
using a social approach, that character suffers addi-
tional strife equal to your school rank.
Starting Outfit: Ceremonial clothing, wakizashi, legal
primer, blank forms, calligraphy kit, scroll designating the
bearer as an individual of decidedly moderate authority.
91
WARS OF WORDS AND SHADOWSADVANCE TYPE
RANK 1
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Commerce Skill
Composition Skill
Courtesy Skill
Rank 1 Earth Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Treaty Signing  Technique
Beware the Smallest Mouse  Technique
RANK 2
Trade Skills Skl. Grp.
Courtesy Skill
Games Skill
Government Skill
Water Shūji Rank 1–2  Tech. Grp.
= The Wind Blows Both Ways  Technique
Unyielding Terms  Technique
RANK 3
Social Skills Skl. Grp.
Commerce Skill
Culture Skill
Sentiment Skill
Air Shūji Rank 1–3  Tech. Grp.
= Hidden in Smoke  Technique
All Shall Fear Me  Technique
RANK 4
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Command Skill
Meditation Skill
Tactics Skill
Rituals Rank 1–4  Tech. Grp.
= The Immovable Hand of Peace  Technique
Rallying Cry  Technique
RANK 5
Trade Skills Skl. Grp.
Command Skills
Performance Skill
Tactics Skill
Void Shūji Rank 1–5  Tech. Grp.
Bend with the Storm  Technique
Formal Tea Ceremony  Technique
RANK 6
Post Facto (Mastery Ability): Once per
game session as a Scheme and Support
action, you may make a TN 3 Government
(Earth) check. If you succeed, you reveal a
huge legal loophole or arcane precedent that
legally justifies the actions of you and your
allies during the scene. Others can refuse
to accept your logic, but must forfeit honor
equal to your ranks in Government plus your
bonus successes to do so.
