Ikoma Shadow School
[Courtier, Shinobi]
The Lion Clan’s Ikoma family is known for its bards, who
shed the tears and express the emotions that stoic war-
riors cannot. However, this family also serves another
purpose: hidden among the bards and other entertain-
ers it produces, it also trains a small number of students
in stealth, political subterfuge, and even battlefield
sabotage. These are the Ikoma Shadows.
Ikoma Shadows infiltrate enemy camps in wartime
and enemy castles in peacetime, stealing or altering
messages, putting twisted truths in the right ear, and
inflaming tensions between other clans. Their work is
not exactly honorable, but most see their role as nec-
essary and justified. War is an ugly affair, and prolong-
ing it uglier still. Most Ikoma Shadows are unwilling to
cross certain lines—such as the use of lethal poisons or
the assassination of helpless targets—but if making an
enemy general sick ends a battle quickly or ambushing
an officer who has ventured far afield breaks the ene-
my’s offensive, most don’t lose sleep over it.
Rings: +1 Air, +1 Fire
Starting Skills (choose five): +1 Courtesy, +1 Culture,
+1 Government, +1 Martial Arts (Melee), +1 Martial
Arts (Ranged), +1 Skulduggery, +1 Survival
Honor: 40
Techniques Available: Kata, Rituals, Shūji
Starting Techniques:
$ Shūji: Whispers of Court
$ Ninjutsu: = Skulk
$ Kata (choose one): Hawk’s Precision, Warrior’s
Resolve
Victory before Honor (School Ability): Once per
scene when performing a check, you may stake an
amount of honor no greater than your school rank to
re-roll a number of dice equal to twice the amount of
honor staked. For each re-rolled die result that does
not contain a  or , you forfeit one staked honor.
Starting Outfit: Ashigaru armor or ceremonial clothes,
daishō or wakizashi and kamayari, yumi, any one musi-
cal instrument or book of poetry, traveling pack.
C H A P T E R 2 : WA R S O F W O R DS AND SHADOWSADVANCE TYPE
RANK 1
Martial Skills Skl. Grp.
Performance Skill
Skulduggery Skill
Survival Skill
Rank 1 General Kata  Tech. Grp.
= What's Yours Is Mine  Technique
Rustling of Leaves  Technique
RANK 2
Social Skills Skl. Grp.
Martial Arts (Unarmed) Skill
Sentiment Skill
Skulduggery Skill
Rank 1–2 Fire Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Crackling Laughter  Technique
The Wind Blows Both Ways  Technique
RANK 3
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Commerce Skill
Labor Skill
Seafaring Skill
Rank 1–3 Water Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Artful Alibi  Technique
All Arts Are One  Technique
RANK 4
Martial Skills Skl. Grp.
Command Skill
Skulduggery Skill
Survival Skill
Rank 1–4 General Kata  Tech. Grp.
= Deceitful Strike  Technique
Bravado  Technique
RANK 5
Social Skills Skl. Grp.
Martial Arts (Ranged) Skill
Martial Arts (Unarmed) Skill
Tactics Skill
Rank 1–5 Air Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Silent Elimination  Technique
Pin the Fan  Technique
RANK 6
Victory Is the Greatest Honor (Mastery Ability): Once per session after failing a
Martial or Social check, you may stake up to
again, adding equal to the honor staked.
If you fail, you forfeit all honor staked. If
you succeed, you instead gain 1 honor and
1 glory.
