Moto Avenger School [Shugenja]
The Moto revere life, death, and the passage between
the two. Life comes from the meeting of earth and
sky as the rain falls to the plains; at death, the two are
divided, for the body returns to the soil while the spirit
returns to the sky. Moto spiritualists work to guide spir-
its to their proper place, that they may return to the
eternal cycle, keeping the cosmos in balance. Howev-
er, some beings defy the cycle through heresies such as
undeath—and Moto Avengers are specialists trained to
rectify such perversions of the natural order. The many
Moto who have became Tainted within the Shadow-
lands have drawn Avengers from the distant corners of
the Moto lands, that they might destroy these abom-
inations and free the spirits of their fallen comrades.
Rings: +1 Air, +1 Earth
Starting Skills (choose three): +1 Courtesy, +1 Cul-
ture, +1 Martial Arts [Melee], +1 Sentiment, +1 Surviv-
al, +1 Theology
Honor: 44
Techniques Available: Air and Earth Invocations (),
Rituals (), Shūji ()
Starting Techniques:
$ Invocations: Grasp of Earth, Tempest of Air
$ Shūji: Ancestry Unearthed, Honest Assessment
Hands of Earth and Sky (School Ability): When you
perform an invocation that targets at least one other
character, if you succeed, you may nourish or drain:
If you nourish, you may receive fatigue up to your
school rank. One target removes fatigue equal to the
amount you received.
If you drain, you may remove an amount of fatigue
from yourself up to your school rank. One target
receives fatigue equal to the amount you removed.
Starting Outfit: Traveling clothes, ashigaru armor,
wakizashi, scroll satchel, finger of jade, traveling pack.
CHAPTER 2: HONOR AGAINST DEMONSADVANCE TYPE
RANK 1
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Command Skill
Martial Arts [Melee] Skill
Survival Skill
Rank 1 Rituals  Tech. Grp.
= Bind the Shadow  Technique
Caress of Earth  Technique
RANK 2
Martial Skills Skl. Grp.
Culture Skill
Medicine Skill
Theology Skill
Rank 1–2 Air Invocations  Tech. Grp.
= Essence of Jade  Technique
= Touchstone of Courage  Technique
RANK 3
Trade Skills Skl. Grp.
Courtesy Skill
Martial Arts [Melee] Skill
Tactics Skill
Rank 1–3 Earth Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Earthquake  Technique
Earth Becomes Sky  Technique
RANK 4
Social Skills Skl. Grp.
Medicine Skill
Sentiment Skill
Theology Skill
Rank 1–4 Earth Invocations  Tech. Grp.
Rise, Air  Technique
Wolf’s Proposal  Technique
RANK 5
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Martial Arts [Melee] Skill
Performance Skill
Survival Skill
Rank 1–5 Air Invocations  Tech. Grp.
Rouse the Soul  Technique
Tomb of Jade  Technique
RANK 6 Empathic Transfer (Mastery Ability): When
you nourish, you may remove one condition
the target is suffering by transferring it to
yourself. When you drain, you may remove
one condition you are suffering by transfer-
ring it to one of your targets.
