Yogo Preserver School [Shugenja]
Like all Scorpion, Yogo Preservers view their duty to the
Emperor as being beyond the considerations of honor.
Theirs is a special task, bound to the cursed destiny of
the original Yogo—protecting shrines that contain arti-
facts best lost to history, such as the Black Scrolls. Using
their paper servants called shikigami, these somber indi-
viduals poison, murder, and thieve—in the name of stav-
ing off the darkness that threatens all Rokugan.
Rings: +1 Fire, +1 Void
Starting Skills (choose three): +1 Aesthetics, +1 Cour-
tesy, +1 Martial Arts [Melee], +1 Sentiment, +1 Skul-
duggery, +1 Theology
Honor: 38
Techniques Available: Invocations (), Rituals (),
Shūji ()
Starting Techniques:
$ Invocations: By the Light of the Lord Moon,
= Embrace of Kenro-Ji-Jin, Yari of Air
$ Rituals: = Craft Shikigami, Threshold Barrier
Warded Shikigami (School Ability): You can have a
number of additional shikigami (see page 115) up to
your school rank. Once per scene, after you perform an
action, you may instruct one of your shikigami to perform
an action, for which it benefits from your assistance.
Starting Outfit: Traveling clothes, sanctified robes,
concealed armor, wakizashi, bō (staff), traveling pack.
CHAPTER 2: HONOR AGAINST DEMONSADVANCE TYPE
RANK 1
Artisan Skills Skl. Grp.
Culture Skill
Martial Arts [Melee] Skill
Theology Skill
Rank 1 Fire Invocations  Tech. Grp.
Cloak of Night  Technique
Reflections of P’an Ku  Technique
RANK 2
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Aesthetics Skill
Courtesy Skill
Skulduggery Skill
Rank 1–2 Air Invocations  Tech. Grp.
= Hands of the Tides  Technique
= Skulk  Technique
RANK 3
Trade Skills Skl. Grp.
Government Skill
Smithing Skill
Theology Skill
Rank 1–3 Fire Invocations  Tech. Grp.
Vapor of Nightmares  Technique
= Wings of the Phoenix  Technique
RANK 4
Social Skills Skl. Grp.
Martial Arts [Melee] Skill
Performance Skill
Sentiment Skill
Rank 1–4 Air Invocations  Tech. Grp.
Silencing Stroke  Technique
Suijin’s Embrace  Technique
RANK 5
Artisan Skills Skl. Grp.
Culture Skill
Government Skill
Theology Skill
Rank 1–5 Fire Invocations  Tech. Grp.
Ever-Changing Waves  Technique
Tomb of Jade  Technique
RANK 6 Kingdom of Paper and Ink (Mastery Ability): When one of your shikigami performs an
action, it may spend  as follows:
+: Another one of your shikigami at range
0–3 of you may perform an action. Increase
the  cost of this ability by  for each of
your shikigami that has acted this turn
