Togashi Chronicler School
[Courtier, Monk]
By learning and meditating upon the stories of the
past, the Dragon Clan’s Togashi Chroniclers see into
the future. While most historians record events in detail
to instruct future generations or study the stars, Togashi
Chroniclers instead collect stories, folktales, and lore
to capture truth. Not concerned with mutable details
such as names and dates, they search for patterns to
illuminate the conflicts of humanity that have unfolded
time and again since the first sword was forged and the
first edict written. Slowly, a new rhythm surfaces, and
chroniclers are able to use the new insight it provides
into human nature to foresee that which is yet to come.
Most chroniclers travel continuously, exploring the
wonders of the world. Their insightful nature makes
them welcome in many courts across Rokugan. How-
ever, they are just as often found outside a straw hovel
trading stories with commoners for a bowl of rice.
Rings: +1 Earth, +1 Water
Starting Skills (choose four): +1 Culture, +1 Fitness,
+1 Labor, +1 Martial Arts [Unarmed], +1 Meditation,
+1 Performance
Honor: 40
Techniques Available: Kata, Rituals, Shūji
Starting Techniques:
$ Ritual: Divination
$ Kihō (choose one): Cleansing Spirit, Ki Protection
$ Shūji (choose one): Honest Assessment, Truth
Burns Through Lies
A Grain of Truth (School Ability): Once per scene
after you succeed on a Social skill check, you may
choose a kihō with a prerequisite up to your school
rank (whether you know it or not). You gain the benefits
of its Enhancement Effect (see Kihō on page 183 of the
core rulebook) as if you had successfully activated it.
This effect persists until the end of the scene.
Starting Outfit: Traveling clothes, bō, knife,
traveling pack.ADVANCE TYPE
RANK 1
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Fitness Skill
Martial Arts [Unarmed] Skill
Performance Skill
Rank 1 Earth Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Lord Togashi's Insight  Technique
Beware the Smallest Mouse  Technique
RANK 2
Trade Skills Skl. Grp.
Medicine Skill
Meditation Skill
Performance Skill
Rank 1–2 Water Shūji Tech. Grp.
= All Arts Are One  Technique
Open Hand Style  Technique
RANK 3
Social Skills Skl. Grp.
Culture Skill
Commerce Skill
Mediation Skill
Rank 1–3 Air Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= The Great Silence  Technique
= The Ties that Bind  Technique
RANK 4
Martial Skills Skl. Grp.
Culture Skill
Medicine Skill
Performance Skill
Rank 1–4 Fire Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Breaking Blow  Technique
Foreseen Need  Technique
RANK 5
Scholar Skills Skl. Grp.
Fitness Skills
Martial Arts [Unarmed] Skill
Performance Skill
Rank 1–4 Void Shūji  Tech. Grp.
= Death Touch  Technique
The Immovable Hand of Peace  Technique
RANK 6 Echoes of Ancient Days (Mastery Ability):
When you use your school ability, you may
choose a number of characters up to your
ranks in Performance who can hear you. Each
chosen character also gains the benefits of
the kihō's enhancement effect as long as it
persists on you.
